{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6k7jesEDydk",
  "title": "Catching the Contagious Interview | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresented by Daniel Gordon\n\nDaniel Gordon, Cyber Threat Intel Analyst and contractor at the Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center, provides listeners with information on the Contagious Interview, a hacking activity suspected to be linked to North Korean (DPRK) IT workers.\n\nLearn more about this operation as Daniel walks us through the mind-map of DPRK hacking groups, and how they utilize IT workers. Gain insights into the attributes of their activities, and how they utilize social engineering to get victims to compromise their own systems like on platforms such as Upwork and Fiverr by distributing malicious repositories.\n\nGain insights on the tools and techniques used by analysts to understand more about this threat, some interesting OPSEC mistakes, and how a recent Phylum report helped attribute the group and their recent evolution.\n\nTimestamps:\n00:00 Introduction/Thanks\n00:36 Background\n01:04 Social engineering\n01:33 Infection chain\n02:14 Intent\n02:48 Crypto tracing\n03:26 More heists\n04:09 Targeting\n04:30 GitHub OpSec\n05:05 Infrastructure\n06:05 Attribution\n06:56 Takeaways",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 456,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 Hi, everyone.  My name is Daniel Gordon.  I'm a contractor to the Department of Defense Cybercrime Center, or DC3.  This is my presentation, Catching the Contagious Interview.  For those who don't know, contagious interview is hacking activity linked to or conducted  by IT workers.  While you chew on that, I want to say thank you to a bunch of folks who have shared information  publicly and privately that contributed to my research, and some of which ended up in  this presentation.  So thank you to folks up here.  So what are IT workers?  North Korea sends thousands of people to various countries around the world.  These people apply for remote jobs in the tech sector.  And North Korea takes up to 90% of their salary to generate hundreds of millions of dollars  for their weapons program.  So if you thought the IRS was bad, try this.  Yeah, anyway.  So what does contagious interview activity look like?  It's social engineering on gig sites like Upwork, Fiverr, Freelancer, LinkedIn, a bunch  of other platforms.  They approach people as IT recruiters.  Hey, do you want this lucrative job?  Do this coding challenge.  They'll send people a malicious repository like the one that you can see on the screen.  And people run it and infect themselves.  The first stage is written in JavaScript.  It's uploaded, the repositories are sometimes sent via Google Drive links.  Sometimes it's uploaded to platforms like GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab.  It leads to the second stage, so the first stage referred to as Beavertail, second stage  referred to as Invisible Ferret.  Invisible Ferret has two components, one's a browser stealer, the other I'll talk about  a little bit more in a second.  And then finally the third stage, AnyDesk, which you guys heard a bit about in the last  presentation.  So Invisible Ferret has, it looks for files and folders related to cryptocurrency and  also related to software development.  So I thought that looking for software development meant they were trying to steal code to help  them get or keep their IT worker jobs, but somebody in the cryptocurrency sector pointed  out that cryptocurrency developers probably leave wallet addresses, passcodes, private  keys in their software, adversary wants to steal that and use that to steal cryptocurrency.  Any questions before I keep going?  So a victim of this actor was kind enough to post their wallet address in a blog post.  Thank you to that person.  Through the wonders of cryptocurrency tracing, we're able to see this actor laundering funds  through Tornado Cash, which helps support attribution to North Korea.  Tornado Cash is used by lots of other threat actors, but the North Koreans love it.  So we also see funds intermingled with funds stolen from a cryptocurrency project known  as Mural.  The Mural heist was linked to a bunch of other major heists, I say major by my standards  anyway.  So they include Serenity Shield, Cloud AI, Concentric Fi, several others.  This puts the totals for money stolen by this actor in the millions of dollars, which is  millions more than I expected them to be able to steal because their offset is terrible  and they're not great at social engineering.  But the cryptocurrency sector is like a lot of other sectors.  Some organizations have more resources than others for security.  So they're targeting, obviously, the cryptocurrency sector.  A lot of their GitHub projects have blockchain themes.  Some of them are focused on tech vertical and obviously AI because everything has to  have AI now.  But folks will open issues against their GitHub repository saying, hey, do not execute this,  is malware, or hey, there's malicious code in line 123, you should probably do something  about that.  And one of the things that makes me think that this is IT workers and not a real, real  cyber threat actor is that they don't take down the repository, they don't change anything  about their code, they don't do anything other than close the issue and move on with  their day.  So yeah, they don't change their code much, and as a result, we were able to write a malware  config parser for their malware family.  A malware config parser is an open source framework, and it allows you to write in Python  code against, you know, a malware sample that you're looking at.  You can use that code to automatically pull out whatever you're interested in.  So if you want C2 at information, like these port numbers that this adversary uses all  the time, or if you want an XOR key, you want sub files, we've written malware config parsers  for all these situations, and it lets you analyze malware rapidly at scale, which is  really important if your actor is operating at scale, as you all are aware.  This actor also has very clear preferences for their infrastructure.  As you can see, they will register all their IP addresses with the same hosting provider.  It's one of a number of things that makes tracking their infrastructure really easy.  When it comes to attribution, these are all circumstantial attribution data points.  They help paint a picture of a North Korean threat actor.  These are all things that we associate with North Korean threat actors on their own.  These would not be good enough for attribution.  Taken together, they do help suggest attribution to North Korea.  The real attribution data point, though, is there are multiple instances where contagious  interview GitHub repositories or accounts are connected to IT worker GitHub repositories  or accounts.  I42 highlighted this in their blog, where they named this threat actor, but we've seen  it as well, and so have other people in this field.  So what are the takeaways on my presentation?  Contagious interview consists of hacking activity conducted by or linked to North Korean IT  workers.  They use gig platforms and malicious software packages to infect their victims.  Their intent is stealing cryptocurrency.  Maybe they have other goals as well, but I've seen them stealing cryptocurrency.  They've been active since at least December of 22, and they are active as of today, so  now.  This is an ongoing campaign.