{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wnNhRLIGws0",
  "title": "Closing Remarks | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresented by John Hultquist\n\nClosing remarks and raffle spinning with John Hultquist!",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 457,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 I think before we leave, we're going to do the raffle.  I got some big winners.  Oh, here's all the junk.  What are we going to start with?  What's like, let's, uh, what's the, what's the, like the smaller items?  All right, let's start with something exciting.  Let's do the, uh, this pillow.  Big pillow.  I heard a lot of interest in this pillow.  All right, we've got a random name spinner.  This is all, this is just the badge names, by the way, not the ones everybody can see,  not the ones that are behind the scenes.  All right, spin it, go.  And the winner is Derrick, Derrick, you here, Derrick, all right, Derrick, we're going to  hold your pillow here in case you're not in here.  All right.  What is it?  T-shirt?  T-shirt?  Uh-oh.  Bobby Preston.  Bobby Preston, come on down.  Where are you, Bobby?  No?  Okay.  Okay.  We're going to hold that for you, Bobby.  All right.  What is this?  This is, oh, man, this is a front of a license plate thing.  You can't use this in Virginia, but there are states where you can use this.  All right.  Who's the big winner?  Uh-oh.  Uh, Megan?  Megan, where are you?  Come on down.  Isn't anybody here?  All right.  Let's keep going.  Oh, man.  We're just going to give this to Alan Liska.  This is a scattered spider model here.  Who's the big winner?  Alan Liska.  Bring it, come on down, Alan.  I'm just kidding.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  All right.  Um.  I'm just kidding.  Greg Brewer.  All right.  Here you go, Greg.  All right.  Let's see.  How about a skateboard?  Skateboard.  It's flashy.  It's sassy.  Who's the bigger winner?  Um, Megan?  Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  Which one do you like best?  Uh, Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  Megan.  I don't even know who's going to win or what's going on.  who's the big winner oh oh Gerald B Gerald B oh man big winner  oh man oh right who wants his coffee cup who's the big winner coffee cup as  we're the booze is almost ready I promise coffee cup Ben Coon come on Ben  where are you I'll hold this for you yeah a lot of interest in the pickleball  set look at these bad boys guys this is this is sweeping the nation pickleball  who's the big winner oh David Oxley come on down David big winner come on  Oxley all right send us some videos oh oh we got another board here folks  another skateboard isn't she beaut isn't she a beaut spin that wheel yes we don't  need power to have fun we don't need energy big winner is Alex come on Alex  is your thing just say Alex last item this is a I believe this is this is  Nintendo switch man that's very nice that paper this who do you know where  did this come from Tyler thank you Nintendo switch who's the big winner  the winner is Trayvon Smith Trayvon Smith where are you I'll hold on to this  for you I promise all right I think that's it a few thank yous and I think  you guys can start part in so thank you everyone who stuck through this  ridiculous fiasco this is my Jurassic Park and you guys outlived the  velociraptors and the whole the whole thing so thank you so much for sticking  out through this we lost the virtual people we love them we'll miss them they  didn't make it I'm so sorry we got to figure out what to do with them but you  guys made it and I'm so proud of you so thank you the volunteers thank you  digital project masters who made this work despite the fact that we have like  I mean no power that's pretty ridiculous by the way there is a cord dangling  through the atrium from the front desk that's what we're running on right now  so thank you everyone who made that happen and thank you to our sponsors  vertex rubric VM ray Microsoft silent push CrowdStrike and stick around after  we drink for a little bit and then we're gonna do sleuth con in in the dark  after dark this will be after it's kind of in the in the dark way it's gonna be  fun you'll have drinks they'll be drinks it'll be a great time go party go  party you deserve it