{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i0vPoKc9jG0",
  "title": "How eCrime Adversaries Use Legitimate Remote Management Tools | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresented by Eric Loui\n\nJoin Eric Loui, Principal Intelligence Analyst from CrowdStrike, discuss the increase of threat actors using Remote Management and Monitoring (RMM) tools to administer workstations while evading security controls since 2022.\nIn this talk, Eric will provide information from several case cases discussing the most popular RMM tools used by cybercriminals, and some helpful recommendations for detecting and mitigating abuse of RMM tools. He will go over tools such as AnyDesk, used by big actors such as Scatter Spider, Mangled Spider, Punk Spider, and Bitwise Spider affiliates. He will also cover ConnectWise ScreenConnect, and TeamViewer and NetSupport Manager.\nDiscover more about RMM tools and how actors abuse them, and how you can detect and stop these kinds of attacks!\n\nTimestamps:\n00:16 Introduction/what are RMM tools?\n01:17 RMM incidents on rise\n01:53 Case Studies\n02:05 Scattered Spider\n03:30 Chef Spider\n04:11 Callback phishing campaigns\n05:01 Hunting recommendations\n08:10 Conclusion\n\n\n\n#RMM #RAT #Cybersecurity",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 514,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 My name is Eric. I'm from CrowdStrike. I'm here to talk about how e-crime adversaries  use legitimate remote management tools. Oh, and it actually works. All right, let's start  with a little bit of background on these tools. So what are these? They're sometimes called  remote management and monitoring tools or RMM tools. These are legitimate remote administration  software offered by commercial vendors, and they're used by IT teams, MSSPs, and others  for monitoring endpoints, deploying patches and hotfixes, and troubleshooting issues  that users report. Almost every vendor has a free version that you or I or anyone can  go download from their website, and there are numerous such vendors. I've listed some  of the more common ones on this slide, but as it turned out in my research, there are  many, many other more obscure ones. The key advantage of these tools is not only do they  offer remote administration capability and can be obtained for free, but they're not  blocked by most security software precisely because they are needed by enterprise IT teams  for legitimate business purposes. And it's that lack of prevention and detection that  e-crime actors and other adversaries exploit. In fact, based on Falcon Overwatch telemetry,  we saw a near doubling in incidents involving RMM tools in 2023 as compared with 2022, as  you see on this slide. And this trend has only accelerated into 2024. When last I checked,  we had over 600 incidents so far in 2024. I've listed some of the most commonly seen  RMM tools on this slide, AnyDesk, Atera, Connect by Screen Connect, you're probably all familiar  with, but as I mentioned, there are many other obscure ones that we have seen as well. I'd like to turn now to a couple  different case studies that highlight some examples of e-crime actors using RMM tools.  Let's start with everyone's favorite adversary, Scattered Spider. This is an extraordinarily  aggressive adversary that conducts prolific SMS phishing and phishing campaigns, which  direct users to landing pages to capture authentication credentials, primarily for SSO,  VPN, remote access, and they also socially engineer help desk users to give up those creds.  They can defeat phone-based MFA with SIM swapping and MFA notification fatigue. Once they authenticate  to your environment, they will frequently drop a panoply of RMM tools, including several more  uncommon ones that have listed there on that slide, as you see. One of the interesting ways  that Scattered Spider deploys RMM tools is by compromising the admin panels for legitimate  EDR tools, so they already have credentials, they authenticate to the EDR admin panel, and  basically all EDR tools also offer native remote shell capability, so they can go run shell commands  on whatever system they want to, and they run commands that of course install an RMM tool to  give them additional access. At a more basic level, sometimes they will literally just spin up a web  browser, point it to the vendor website, download the installer, and run the installer, and that  usually works just fine. They've also deployed RMM tools using Microsoft Azure run commands,  which can run shell commands on your VMs or Microsoft Intune. Chef Spider is an interesting  lower volume e-crime adversary. They begin their campaigns by contacting companies via public sales  leader or contact forms. They pretend to be a customer interested in the company's products,  they provide an email address, the company responds to the email believing that they are  engaging with a customer, and then Chef Spider sends an email back to the company with a link  to a page which hosts an installer for Screen Connect, and we've seen these pages deliver  both Windows and macOS installers, likely based on the user agent strings of a browser navigating  to those pages. We've also tracked a series of callback phishing campaigns. This is a popular  tactic that numerous adversaries have used, so the adversary sends an email to you, it says  you have this imminent charge for a TV streaming service or some other internet service,  here's your invoice, the invoice PDF contains a helpful customer service phone number that you  are encouraged to dial if you do not want to pay your imminent charge. When you call the alleged  customer service number, the operators will send you a second email with a link, in this case to  Zoho Assist, which is another RMM tool, and we've seen the adversary use those Zoho Assist sessions  to download yet another RMM tool called Super Ops, as well as the WinSCP utility likely to  exfiltrate data. I'd like to turn now to some recommendations for hunting RMM tools, and while  the examples I provided are specific to some of the most common RMM tools, the principles here  apply to basically any tool. So at a foundational level, it's useful to monitor for artifacts that  are typical of RMM tools. You would be surprised just how many adversaries continue to use default  installer or client names, which typically reference the product itself, right? ScreenConnect,  TeamViewer, AnyDesk.exe, whatever, very similar to that. Even if you expect one or more of these  tools in your environment, you may not expect them to be dropping binaries regularly. So for instance,  AnyDesk, as part of normal operations, will write a file called GCAPI.dll, but other binaries  dropped underneath your AnyDesk process should probably be investigated. Additionally, RMM tools  will typically write artifacts of various sorts to a subdirectory within Program Files, Program Data,  or AppData Roaming. You see some examples there. The naming tends to reference the vendor or product.  From a network perspective, some RMM tools will send a DNS request to a vendor-associated  domain. So for instance, NetSupportManager, when it starts up, typically sends a DNS request  to geo.netsupportsoftware.com. And ScreenConnect almost always connects to a subdomain of the  legitimate official ScreenConnect.com domain, and that's pretty typical even with malicious  uses of ScreenConnect. At a more advanced level, adversaries may rename their client or installer  binaries, change the file path. So simple hunts like on the former slide may not be as useful  in some cases, but you can still monitor for process behavior, that is, artifacts that appear  on the command line. So for instance, you see here, ConnectWise ScreenConnect will typically  launch with a verbose series of parameters, E, Y, H, so on and so forth. And obviously,  the particular values will change, but the presence of those parameters can be useful  for detecting ScreenConnect. ScreenConnect can also run manual shell commands that will typically  manifest as those run.cmd files on the command line. AnyDesk is typically installed with the  install flag and almost always is installed with the silent flag in order to suppress notifications  to users. TeamViewer will often run with the configuration or DRE flags, and TeamViewer's  helper binaries may appear with the action or log parameters. So in conclusion, ECRM adversaries will  almost certainly continue to use legitimate RMM tools in the future due to their potent combination  of remote administration capabilities, ease of availability, again, you can just download them  from any vendor website, and most importantly, evasion of detections and preventions. So in order  to detect them, baseline your network, know what RMM tools you do expect, and then write detections  for both hosts and network artifacts, as well as process behaviors. Thanks so much.  Thank you.