{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_u9w78_0_-8",
  "title": "I Don\u2019t Think We\u2019re in Western Country Anymore: Ransomware TTPs by the Asia Pacific | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresented by Jono Davis\n\nRansomware is rapidly evolving throughout the world, especially within the Asia-Pacific region, creating unique TTPs that differ from those seen in the West. Join Jono Davis, senior analyst from PwC\u2019s Threat Intelligence Team, as he provides critical information that highlight this region\u2019s tactics by walking us through three major case studies. Stay tuned to learn how companies can best protect themselves from these attacks, and what practices provide a deeper understanding of these actors and their unusual TTPs.\n\nKey Highlights:\nAsia-Pacific vs. Western Ransomware: Discover key differences in ransomware operations\nCase Study 1 - White Vellus: Learn more about the Eastern European threat actor who successfully breached an Asian organization by leveraging cracked software.\nCase Study 2 - LockBit Builder\u2019s Misuse: Examine a unique incident of an Asian-Pacific based actor misusing LockBit ransomware builder who did not follow the group\u2019s usual TTPs.\nCase Study 3 - Black Turtle: Understand the targeting of Veeam servers by these actors, and how their tactic of prioritizing these first provides a unique characterization for actors in this region.\n\nTimestamps:\n00:03 Introduction/about\n01:48 White Veles\n04:22 How common is ransomware in Asia?\n04:48 Overview of case studies\n05:11 Case study 1 - White Veles\n09:33 Case study 2 - Black Turtle\n13:22 Case study 3 - White Dev 173\n15:18 Reconnaissance and initial access\n24:15 Closing/thanks",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 1473,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 My name is Jono. I'm a technical analyst with the PwC Threat Intelligence team. I'm very,  very grateful to the SleuthCon committee for having me here and for me being able to represent  my team's research. I cannot move slides, but I do know them, so it's all good. I always  take the opportunity with the introduction to kind of thank my team. They're so excellent.  The PwC Threat Intel team is kind of like, I like to think of the world's best kept secret.  Everyone in the team is amazing. My colleagues do an excellent job of tracking APTs and crimeware,  and you'll see a lot of that in the presentation. So I know some of you are watching online.  Thanks for existing. You guys are excellent. And if you don't know anyone in the PwC Threat  Intel team, I'm more than happy to be the gateway drug. What we're going to talk about  in this talk, which you maybe will see at some point, is we're going to look at three  case studies from the Asia Pacific region in regards to ransomware. Ransomware in Asia,  we're also going to talk about just a little bit in terms of how it functions and why it's  a little bit different to that of the West. I will preface and say that I don't actually  live in Asia and I'm not native to Asia, but I have spoken to colleagues who are from there  and we're going to talk a little bit about how that works and why ransomware is so different  over there. Then we're going to use the case studies that I've got to effectively talk  through the TTPs used, including a very spicy actor that we found that is, we assess highly  likely to be a ransomware group that is based in Asia, and we can go through their entire  tool suite thanks to an open directory that they left out for us, which is very nice.  This is going to be a very awkward presentation without any visualization. So imagine that  you can see a case study wherein a threat actor called White Veles, which is a threat  actor that we assess is highly likely based not in the Asia Pacific region, but based  in Eastern Europe. If anyone knows the malware X Matter, might ring a bell. This is a threat  actor that was found intruding on a threat actor in Asia. Sorry, an organization in Asia.  For initial access, this is where the talk gets really interesting, and it would be so  much more interesting if you could see how interesting it was. You would see that the  threat actor managed to get in on three separate occasions across a period of a month. The  most interesting part is that the initial access of the initial access was a download  by an individual in the company of a cracked software called PTC Creo. Now, PTC Creo is  a like a software that you can use to kind of head up visualizations or just increase  visualization software. It is a visualization software. The cracked software included within  the README and the other files within the package, the .rel package, the same extension  as the ransomware that came a month later. Super spicy because it kind of indicates and  you would have to come up with a confidence assessment that either the threat actor placed  it there for someone to find, which is not like the threat actor to do before. We have  done a number of intrusions on this threat actor. We have seen nothing like that in the  past or that they employed an insider to potentially find the malicious software because  if you would have been able to see, you would have been able to see that they visited a  number of websites prior to the actual finding the actual software that they wanted. The  problem is that there is no connection between individual one, we'll call them individual  one, and individual two and individual three. Now, those two accounts, the latter two, are  individuals who were found, the accounts that were found to be used in the actual intrusion  a month later. The theory, or a theory, is that individual one was a shared account.  We saw that individual one was able to effectively download, the threat actor was able to download  through individual one a bunch of key logging software, so we assessed it with a realistic  probability that actually they were able to see all of the credentials going in and out.  Okay, Asia, it's bad. There's lots of ransomware, but not as much as there is in the West. And  the NCA and the FBI have either covered that or will cover that in about five minutes or  after lunch. Ransomware was bad, but it is not as bad as it was, again, thanks to the  NCA and the FBI. We've been through that. There are other actors in the region. We're  going to come on to WhiteDev173 in a little second. They are the threat actors that I  aforementioned that have the open directory involved. The case studies, again, White Veles  is the one we basically talked through without the slides, but we'll do a little bit of the  slides. The second case study is one that's based in, a threat actor we assessed is based  in the Asia Pacific region, which is kind of like a halfway house between White Veles  and WhiteDev173. It's interesting because they use the lock bit builder, but not lock  bit, but they do claim to be lock bit halfway through their intrusion and then don't have  a leak site or any exfiltration whatsoever, which is really interesting and weird. Okay,  Veles, there's the visualization I wanted you to see, and you're going to look at it  for a lot shorter period than I wanted you to at the time. I spent a lot of time on it.  It's all good. This is what I was talking about, the individual one timeline. If I go  back, because I can do that, you can see individual one and individual two. There's like a question  mark there, and that's where we don't really know why it is that individual two logged  in a month later than individual one. We're just not sure why that is, but we assess with  a realistic probability that there was a key logger installed, and you can see that  on this slide from the timeline, that the threat actor essentially installed a bunch  of key logging software, a bunch of user data upload software, and then a month later they  return with a completely different account, so we assess with a realistic probability  that the threat actor basically used this weird PTC Creo software to effectively enter  into the environment, which as I said is super novel. It's just not something that you see  every day from a threat actor, particularly one as prolific as White Vela, someone that  so much of the industry has such a great handle on. It's just super rare to see, and it really  is only something we've seen them do whilst acting in the Asia Pacific. This is the part  I was mentioning. You can kind of see it. I always misjudge how easy it is to see things  on slides, but you can see the similarity between a legit cracked PTC Creo, let me say  that again, a legit cracked version of PTC Creo, and the White Vela's cracked PTC Creo.  There are similarities. They basically just repackaged, it looks like, a malicious version  of PTC Creo, which is weird, and then made it more malicious, and the file extension  you can see underlined is the same file extension of the ransomware that we saw a month later,  which if that weren't the case, it'd be really spooky, but if you know, it wouldn't be anything  to look at, but if you know how ransomware configs are built, they're done at runtime  often, or they decide that the extension is loaded in before the ransomware is compiled,  so it looks like an executive decision. More questions than answers, but it's just one  of those case studies I wanted to highlight where we can clearly see a threat actor that  is quite prolific in Europe and the West, or targeting Europe and the West, has a completely  different tool set when it comes to Asia. I wanted to do this, threat intel is one of  those industries where we really love, not just the sound of our own voices, but we love  our work so much, and sometimes we don't do a good enough job of making it relevant for  other people, and I wanted to basically take the case studies and create a defender's retrospective  seeing what could have been done differently, not only because it's a cool thing to do,  but because you will see over the course of the case studies that there will be overlap  in defenses, so whilst the TTPs are unique, they're oftentimes like really quick wins  for defenses, and in this case, it's like no real difference. Network segmentation,  for example, to prevent users from being able to access more of the network than they otherwise  could have done, having allow and deny lists for different websites should kind of be a  thing that we all employ, in this case, because it allowed for a threat actor to get in, but  otherwise it's just a really basic thing to employ, and it's quite common here in the  West, less common in Asia to do so. MFA on remote access or remote services, or even  just RDP sessions in general, having MFA installed as much as possible on all accounts, but certainly  for remote sessions is something that is not as common as you see with user-based accounts  or rather like desktop accounts, and that's just a really quick win, and then also like  Exfil, I can say, because I saw it, the Exfil took place over a number of days. If you had  maybe like a network, like some network infrastructure in place or a network traffic monitor, you  would be able to see a bunch of traffic going out on port 22 or 80, especially because it's  so consistent. The Case Study 2 one, which is interesting in its own way because it involves  a threat actor based in the Asia-Pacific region. We assessed realistic probability just based  off of the fact that the contact email they were using, the contact data they were using  was based in CN. As you'll see with WhiteDev 173, I'm not here to make any political statements.  I'm just here to give you the data, and everyone can do with that what you want. BlackTurtle  specifically went after Veeam servers first. That's an interesting thing to note because  oftentimes ransomware entities, at least from the observations that I've made whilst doing  instant response cases, has been that the threat actor will find Veeam eventually. In  this case, they gunned for the Veeam servers straight for backup.  Now I spoke to individuals who worked alongside on the case based in Asia, and they made an  interesting point that I can't say is gospel, so I'll put realistic probability in front  of it so no one can hold me to account on anything that I'm about to say. In Asia, there's  a lot less of a focus on payment. They don't care so much. It's quite easy for them to  rebuild with the advent of cloud, so they don't take ransomware seriously. That's not  what I'm saying, but there's a definite trend towards we'll just rebuild after the fact.  Even if they encrypt, we'll just rebuild. It's interesting with that knowledge in mind  or at least that anecdote in mind that the threat actor went immediately for Veeam and  then after that targeted other servers as well through proliferation. The encrypted  Veeam had an ESXI kind of leaning and then went to Windows after that, which again depends  on the cases you look at. It's less common. In terms of a defender's retrospective, although  there's some pretty images that I managed to get. There's some IOCs there as well if  you want to take a picture or just want to memorize some IOCs, some IPs, good luck. The  threat actor pretended to be LockBit. They ostensibly emailed the client or the victim  and said, we are LockBit. Here's our leak site. Please pay us now. They didn't exfiltrate  any data and immediately upon being questioned gave them the email to use, which is blackturtle  at sugo.cn, which was super interesting. The communications all took place in English,  which was also a weird development I think I would have expected given the victim and  given the nature of the threat actor that it would have been in Chinese, but it wasn't.  The English communications was an interesting development. I've used the word interesting  a lot. I'm going to continue to use it. In terms of a defender's retrospective, again,  we can see some overlap there. Segmented network can prevent proliferation via one user having  access. I forgot to mention that, but you can read it, that the threat actor got in  via a FortiGate SSL VPN vulnerability, which what I didn't mention is that the victim was  told to patch this from a previous incident about four years ago, and they didn't. So  there were easy quick win fixes to prevent threat actors from getting into the environment  at all, let alone proliferating. I'm pretty sure that's all I want to say.  Also, you know, things like MFA on accounts is a classic one. Making sure that passwords  are being rerolled is a super interesting one, and again, some of these are controversial  within the industry. I'm about to mention the MITRE ATT&CK framework in a little second,  which I know is going to cause some controversy, but some things are really quick wins and  shouldn't be controversial, i.e. patch your systems and constantly do vulnerability scanning  where possible. This one is not the juicy one. It's all juicy. It's all good intel,  and again, I really cannot stress enough how grateful I am for my colleagues and friends  across the world, across PwC, who have just provided all of this intel and helped create  and cobble this together, because this presentation would not be what it is without them, so a  huge shout out for the second time to my guys and gals over at PwC.  WhiteDev 1073 is kind of a bit of a pride and joy of ours. We do quite constant, like,  scanning within the Asia-Pacific region for cool little snippets of stuff, and we found  an open directory that had port 18443 open that contained not just a whole suite of tools,  but most significantly the lock bit builder, and immediately, not alarm bells, but, like,  instantly immediately interesting, because even though we do see threat actors not based  in the Asia-Pacific host in Asia, it's not as common as you might think, or it's not  as common as I thought it was, and so immediately got to work looking at what we had found within  the directory, and what we found is, like, a whole suite of tools, and I thought the  best way to go about looking at it, both from an analysis perspective, but from a presentation  perspective as well, is to look at it from the MITRE ATT&CK framework, and I know that  the MITRE ATT&CK framework for some people in this industry is, you know, it is what  it is, it's a framework, but for this particular example, it works really, really well, because  I cannot explain to you every tool that's being used, and many of you will probably  recognize a lot of these tools, and some of them you might not. I thought it best to map  them to the MITRE ATT&CK framework so we can get an idea of how this threat actor operates  from recon all the way down to, you know, impact and XFIL and command and control. Did  that smoothly transition? It actually didn't. There you go. To command and control. And  we'll talk about some of these tools as we go. The recon initial access is always, for  me, the most interesting, because I'm going to spoil it for you, Cobalt Strike is used.  The way it's used is quite novel, which is cool, but Cobalt Strike is, you know, I can't  talk about it for 30 minutes, but the recon initial access stuff is super interesting.  It's the way, it's where we understand how a threat actor thinks about and where they  can develop entering into an environment. We see threat actors use credentials, we see  threat actors sometimes use phishing, although less so now, and sometimes we see them using  vulnerability scanning and then intrusion via some kind of, like, exploit that they  either find or develop themselves. In white dev 173 cases, which I know is not the sexiest  name, I know threat intel is quite famous for having weird and wonderful and wacky naming  conventions. We are currently in the process of doing an ACH, analysis of competing hypotheses.  The reason it hasn't been done now is because I'm quite new to the states and was moving  over and it was a hassle. We're quite stringent in the team about how we do our naming conventions  and this was no exception. White dev 173, as I said, not the sexiest name, but it will  be changed to something a lot nicer once we get going.  The initial access and recon is an interesting one, because they use tools that sometimes  we've seen across our more western-based or rather not Asia-based actors, things like  web scan logic and volmap, which are readily available on GitHub.  Xeon, XeonDXP and XeonDXP, these are tools that specifically target web platforms that  are written in Chinese language. I will say, I'm not going to say what's here on the slide,  but there is a bunch of TXT files that they use to kind of pump into these tools. The  targeting is interesting, and again, I'm not making political statements, I'm here to show  you what the data says. The IPs within their TXT files that they would use are based in  Korea, Taiwan, Iran, and mainland China. I don't know readily what that says about the  actor, I don't know what their handle is, particularly since I'm trying to see perhaps  if it's a raster-based target, rather than speaking of the state and the country. In  this case, people have brought raster targeting, but it's a case of white dev 173, which is  specifically focused on the Asian category in general. I mentioned Cobblestrike, the  proactor does use Cobblestrike, we found a very specific instance of it. In fact, the  proactor was kind enough to leave on their own directory to envolve, so you'll see them  test out the Cobblestrike instance two days prior to it going live. We actually found  that Cobblestrike instance before we found the group, through our online net gang, and  we basically put two and two together, but this was the group that was used in the server,  but we got to see that by testing success, we got to see that they set up their username  and passwords. We had four usernames, jhc, j, hannah, and neo. All of them shared the  same password convention, it was j, jhc, it was Matthew, at 123, j, it was j, at 123,  exclamation mark, and hannah, it was hannah, at 123, exclamation mark. We didn't get neos,  but we did see, and we assessed that the realistic probability probably followed the  same convention. They are all censoring the team server, which has a poor number of 12345s,  and a team server password of 12345, as well as every single IP that was successfully,  what's the word, successfully, and eventually accepted the team server is based in Hong  Kong. Of those five, three of them have the same 27 names.  We did see, it wasn't in the slide, but we did see one other successful user,  the team server, by a name like brownflare, it was done from a team here in Hong Kong.  I mean, it's a very simple model framework, you're supposed to use the dev team models,  right? You put the dev team models into the dev team models, it's really easy to use,  it has a really, like, easy tweak to use, but you can also use plug-in models,  and those are made via the, like, native public thread, I think, so, regressors,  and you'll be able to get .cna files, that is the regressor script, looks like that.  Actually, one of those, one of those scripts is basically, like, Java, basically,  it's really easy to mix stuff, and then you can see, regularly how the thread actors  can use it to develop their own scripts. Now, why do I want to develop its own script?  I think the evidence is, plug-ins from Chinese developers, like LayDot,  might be famous within Chinese AT groups, and some client groups.  Another one, CX, is a free, China-based, Chinese language script.  In fact, CX is written entirely in Chinese, the CNA files are written with the Mandarin  Chinese language, but it's no longer available on GitHub, so you can take it down,  it bridges on, like, state-of-the-art security, new legislation, so we can only say,  with plug-ins, probably going to take to a highly likely confidence assessment,  they have the full GitHub repo, we can only make that assessment.  Now, if you, basically, the CNA files, the CNA files are quite similar,  they do a very similar thing, they effectively have everything from privilege escalation  all the way down to, like, bypass, user creation, scheduled path creation, user deletion,  everything that you could want for Red Team.  All of these tools are patched together in other Chinese language,  like LSTAR, or OneBox, and that's basically how they conduct most of their operations.  There are some other tools that they use, they usually have their own scripts,  for some things, like bypassing, any ways to bypass, they have their own custom script,  I can't find anywhere else, which is interesting, but they do seem to be somewhat, again,  bastardized versions of what we see in OpenSource.  So it's Frax that is capable of developing tools, it has some help, we can do so.  The only other tools that we see on the instance are CD drivers.  They're not normal or sexy, they're quite old.  Which is Redux account vulnerability, if anyone knows that, it's basically like an in-and-out...  Have you ever heard of Redux?  No, I've never seen it.  You've never heard of Redux?  No.  Oh, thank you.  Anyone else?  I don't actually know that you've ever heard of Redux.  No, I've never seen it.  It's basically like a...  It's a one-stop-shop rule, like Redux is, effectively, again, not developing tools themselves,  but they are, in some ways, using privilege escalation,  so the suite is really expensive.  In terms of, I don't know how long I have, I'll just close up here,  because the other stuff, it's going to be much more useful,  on the slide.  I'm not meaning, it should be easier to look at than have me talk to you.  Again, defenses are something that will overlap with the other case studies that we looked at before.  Stuff like MFA on account, both local and remote.  Having user entity-based analytics, where this is a bit more sophisticated,  where you, effectively, have a nominal user,  and you can say, okay, the nominal user will conduct X amount of activities.  Any users outside of that, we would like to flag to assault,  and we would like to immediately alert to stop on that.  Now, that, for WhiteJet 1.33, would be really beneficial,  because a lot of their attack depends on them being able to create users,  and be able to use those new users to effectively,  let's say, take privileges and then bypass them immediately.  I did put in the slide that it's going to be kind of useful to have,  it's had a role that isn't too extensive,  but then I also said a lot of the WhiteJet 1.33 have all bypassed that,  because they're able to effectively shut down AV.  So, yes, extensive AV is always good, and it's a way to talk about practice,  especially if you're ensuring the market there,  but also, WhiteJet 1.33 might be able to do the same thing.  I'm going to close off by saying that,  despite technical difficulties, this has been a really wonderful experience.  Thank you very much for having me.  Big thanks to the Snoop team.  I hope you enjoy the rest of the day.  Thank you very much.