{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEovdEHjF5s",
  "title": "It's Me, Hi, I'm the APT: The Rise of E-Crime to Nation-State Levels | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresented by Selena Larson\n\nState-backed hackers consistently make waves within the cybersecurity community, taking up the majority of focus and attention of what people perceive to be the biggest threats. Selena Larson, senior threat intelligence analyst at Proofpoint, challenges the status-quo, by calling for a shift in focus to threats arguably as advanced and harmful; e-crime.\n\nJoin Selena Larson as she delves into the dynamics of APTs and e-crime, providing a timeline of cybersecurity history, how key players have shaped the cyber-landscape and contributed to the misalignment of real vs. perceived threats. She shares important and compelling evidence of how cybercriminals are advancing to the skills of state-backed hackers, sharing personal anecdotes of the consequences of e-crime on critical infrastructure and everyday lives. Her talk highlights how these actors are constantly evolving, becoming more advanced, and how they pose a much bigger threat to most corporations than government-backed actors.\n\nTimestamps:\n00:00 Intro/about\n00:56 Level setting cybercrime\n01:32 Main argument\n03:45 Timeline of evolution of ransomware\n08:50 Aligning actors with APT definition\n10:18 E-crime\n11:40 TA577\n14:20 Increasing in zero-days\n15:08 E-criminals have money\n17:42 Effect of disruptions\n20:53 State-backed actors vs. e-crime\n21:58 Personal anecdotes\n26:45 Why does it matter?\n28:40 Closing remarks",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 1751,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 Morning everybody, how's it going?  I hope you're all, if not already caffeinated,  getting caffeinated because today is gonna be  an amazing, amazing conference.  I am so excited for all the talks on deck today.  So yeah, for those of you who don't know me,  I am Selena Larson.  I am a threat researcher at Proofpoint  and also lead of intelligence analysis and strategy  for the threat research team.  I mostly focus on e-crime and today I'm so excited  to put in slide deck form a rant that I give all the time.  Some of you in the audience might even already  be familiar with it.  So before we get started, I want to, oh, did we?  Oh, it's slightly, okay, we're good, thank you.  Before we get started, I want to level set.  There are a lot of different things  that exist in cyber crime.  You have business email compromise, pig butchering,  information stealers, commodity malware, all that stuff.  Today we're gonna be focusing on the big kahunas.  The main initial access brokers  and the cyber criminal threat actors  that support essentially a multi-billion dollar enterprise  that is known as ransomware.  So yeah, it's a little Taylor Swift themed  and I got some friendship bracelets already  so great day so far.  Yeah, so in biasing ourselves towards APT versus e-crime,  we create a false dichotomy that pushes resources,  attention, and support to areas that don't always align  with the greatest organizational risks and impacts.  Your average organization has a greater threat  from cyber crime than government backed actors.  And I think part of the reason why we have these biases  in the CTI industry is that we're fundamentally built  on people who came from government,  who came from national security,  who brought with them, frankly, way too many acronyms  and this idea of the mission and this idea  that our enemies and enemies of the state  are the most important ones that we should focus on  and those happen to be government backed threat actors.  Obviously, that's hugely important, right?  But APT or government threat actors are not the ones  that are the most damaging to national interests currently  and the average community and the people that live and work  and exist in our communities.  And I can't tell you how many times I've talked  to an organization that is at much greater risk  from e-crime and financially motivated attacks,  especially those from initial access brokers  and all they want to do is talk about China.  It's like, let's think about what is really risk  and impacting to your organization.  And if we're coming with a threat informed defense mindset,  it's really important to understand the threats  and risks to these organizations  and most of the time, it's cyber crime.  So I propose that we reframe the idea of APT,  an advanced persistent threat.  It's not and it shouldn't be a synonym  for a government backed espionage actor.  And not just because not all government backed actors  are just frankly not advanced or persistent,  but also because the cyber criminal landscape  and the ecosystem that exists is on par  with some of the most sophisticated state backed,  state associated threat actors  that are conducting espionage operations.  To understand how we got here,  we have to learn from where we've been.  And this is just a sprinkling,  things that jumped out to me,  obviously there's not a comprehensive timeline  of cyber crime,  but I do want to point out some key points here.  So in the early 2000s,  consumer focused ransomware and consumer focused malware  was really what cyber criminal threat actors  were very much focused on.  But then come around 2007 in the mid aughts,  we had the rise of banking Trojans.  You had Zeus, Gozi, some of these major bankers  really emerged and sort of set the standard  and created a business model  where they started going after personal finance data,  both from the consumer perspective,  but also the business perspective.  In 2009, Bitcoin emerges, which is a huge mistake.  Sorry to all my chain analysis friends,  but what that did was serve to be a catalyst for cyber crime.  Now they don't have to go after fiat currency.  Now you don't have these mules.  You don't have all of these components  of the cyber crime enterprise  that have to wander real money.  Now you have crypto.  And with that, you had the rise of Game Over Zeus,  CryptoLocker, others as well.  But these were the two main kind of cyber criminal threats  that really ushered in a sort of new era of cyber crime.  They embrace the pivot to cryptocurrency  and really launched the era of the cyber crime kingpin.  They planted a flag for what we now know and understand  as cyber criminal business models.  2014 through 2016, we had the rise of Emotet, Tridex,  some of the most notorious botnets  that caused tons and tons of problems.  Initially they were bankers too,  because banking Trojans were still really big.  They were still leaning into that  until they decided, wait.  You know what could make me more money?  Is ransomware.  So then they started acting as loaders for other ransomware.  Come 2017, WannaCry, I know this was APT,  this was DPRK Threat Actor,  but I think it's important to include.  Because it shows how APT Threat Actors  were learning from the cyber crime ecosystem.  They were using very similar techniques  to fund state activities.  But more importantly, in my opinion,  is it showed the potential for disruptive ransomware  and the just sheer volume of attacks and impact  that ransomware can have on our society.  Unfortunately, in my opinion,  perhaps we didn't take that threat quite so seriously.  Because in 2018, you had Reuke,  the rise of big game hunting.  Reuke was kind of the gold standard.  You know, you see a lot of Emotet trip bot Reuke  back in the olden days.  And big game hunting really became the norm.  So moving into 2019, 2020, double extortion happens.  Now it's not enough to just encrypt stuff for money.  Now they're gonna steal data and hold that for ransom too.  And now there's this other additional layer of risk  that comes from a data leak.  So people's personal information,  very, very sensitive details are being stolen and leaked.  And that becomes an even bigger problem.  In 2021, Colonial Pipeline ransomware attack happened  and we finally started taking ransomware seriously.  Congratulations, we know it's a threat now.  All right.  I just, it kind of annoys me that for literally years,  schools, small businesses,  city and state governments, hospitals,  all of these very critical, important components  of our society were being ransomwared.  And it took an oil and gas pipeline  and a beef manufacturer to be like, wait,  this is bad actually.  So I'm glad we all kind of rallied around that now  and we realized how important this is.  In 2022, Conti leaks happened.  And this was actually pretty interesting  because you had this fracturing  of the cyber criminal ecosystem.  You had all these folks that were kind of in this one place.  They were all sort of in the solar system of cyber crime,  but they were all like a confluence of threat actors  that were operating kind of in this one group  or they knew people were operating in this group.  And it really unveiled a lot of the tactics, techniques,  how these businesses were structured.  And the fracturing of that led to the creation  of some bespoke ransomware,  some new and interesting threat actors  and people maybe changing their allegiances  or the people that they work with.  And then finally, where we are now,  we have increased sophistication across the landscape.  Again, I'm talking about initial access brokers,  but you have the use of zero days,  the expansion of TTPs,  the targeting of edge network devices.  And you have all of this driven  because of work done from defenders  forcing innovation across the landscape.  So I'm gonna talk APT and discuss in all the ways  that the cyber criminal actors,  the most sophisticated ones that we track,  align with this acronym.  Microsoft blocking macros by default  was the worst thing to happen to security  in the cyber crime landscape ever.  This is what Kelsey Merriman, the queen of crime,  one of my favorite colleagues said,  this is obviously a joke,  but we were talking one day  about how much harder our jobs have become.  It used to be an easy button, click to enable macros.  You had Emotet, Drydex, Trickbot,  all of these sort of major threat actors,  Qbot threat actors, all these major actors  using the same initial access mechanism,  macro-enabled documents.  When that stopped working,  you had this forced innovation.  We have to create something new.  And what ends up happening is threat actors  coming up with new attack chains, new TTPs,  sometimes literally every day,  and we wake up and have to write detections for that.  We have to campaign that, we have to block that,  we have to stop that.  Kelsey thinks it's a lot more exciting.  Frankly, sometimes I miss the easy button.  My colleague Tommy Magiar has forced me to read  so much more obscure Microsoft documentation  than I really ever wanted to read  to understand the new techniques  that these threat actors are using.  But it did.  I mean, it really just sort of forced actors  to do different things and forced us  to think about differently and how we respond to them.  E-crime has a mentality of move fast and break things.  They have the space and resources to test TTPs  on thousands of targets every single day.  We have a lot of increased sophistication.  We have infiltering, the use of TDS, indirect syscalls,  tons of random file types that, for some reason,  are still relevant and effective in 2024.  And you have, often, threat actors conducting A-B testing.  Like, literally, in the morning,  my European colleagues will come on,  see a wave of campaign data,  and then when my American colleagues wake up,  those detections are, all right,  we're getting detections for this campaign,  but wait, they pivoted, targeting North America,  they're doing something completely different.  So you have this sort of dynamic development cycles.  You have iterating and testing TTPs at scale.  And then combine that with their ability  to create or pay for novel exploits.  We'll talk in just a second about O-Day.  But, in reality, it's not just Zero Day.  It's N-Days, too, that they're exploiting  and getting a lot better at coming up with ways  to get on a box that, historically,  would have just been a very easy click.  Combine those together, that means lots of money.  To illustrate this, I wanted to highlight TA577,  who is one of my favorite threat actors.  Folks in the audience might know them  as the Qbot TR threat actor.  They pretty much exclusively relied on Qbot  until August 2023, when that was announced  that the Qbot was disrupted.  Anyway, TA577 had both a disruption  of macros not working anymore,  and then they lost access to their number one  malware delivery in Qbot.  So they've had to really be innovating  on both sides of the attack chain.  They have to get delivery done well,  and they have to figure out what malware they're using.  So in February, they had 12 campaigns,  which is about average for them.  Eight of those were unique attack chains.  And most of them, we'd never seen before.  So you had their love affair with Zip JavaScript.  They do like that.  PowerShell or Curl, depending on the day.  Then you had the use of JAR files, which is so weird.  So many initial access brokers lately  have just adopted this pivot to Java downloaders,  which is baffling.  I'm very confused about that,  but they seem to be well-liked.  And then you had the use of file scheme URIs  to external SMB shares.  This was really interesting, because this came on a wave  of initial access brokers using WebDAV,  using SMB in very creative ways  to get folks to download a payload on the host.  So they leaned into SMB.  In fact, all the way into February 2026,  when they were doing a file scheme URI  to an impact at SMB server to steal NTLM credentials.  What?  Why?  And so you really had them,  you saw in real time the innovation  and the dynamic changes in TTPs.  Sticking with 577, bear with me.  If you extend this graph all the way down,  it would be all gray.  They loved macros.  They almost exclusively relied on macro-enabled documents  for malware delivery.  You can see when that changed, when that stopped working.  And they had to innovate.  They're like, okay, well, we're gonna pivot  to compressed executables to bypass Mark of the Web.  Okay, we're gonna actually do shortcut files to JavaScript.  Okay, we're gonna pivot to PDF with URLs  leading to external file shares.  And then we're gonna sprinkle in a few CVEs.  We're gonna play with that.  We're gonna use 404 TDS.  We're gonna use SearchMS.  What?  Calm down, please.  Internet shortcut URLs.  You had just so much activity,  so much changing going on.  And every time they come up with a new attack chain,  we write defenses for it,  and then they come up with something new.  So we're working constantly to combat this innovation  by some of the most sophisticated cybercrime threat actors.  So zero days have increasingly been used  by cybercriminal threat actors.  This is a trend that started, I think,  closer to late 2021 into 2022.  But what we really see is a spike in 2023 to 2024.  Even just last week, Kaspersky published information  about a new Windows vulnerability  that was used to deliver Qbot and some other malware.  You have a CLOP, the zero day, the move it,  zero days by CLOP, which I think  was probably the most high-profile instance of this.  And then you have a couple of threat actors  that we track using Microsoft SmartScreen vulnerabilities  throughout the end of 2023 and into 2024.  So we saw them in email-based attack chains  using the SmartScreen O-Day.  So it's just, you have a lot of evidence  of the evolution of this,  and that's because e-crime has the cash money.  Sophisticated exploit and TTP development  is now done by cybercrime actors because they can afford it.  That puts them ahead a lot of government or espionage groups  that can't develop zero day in-house  and can't spend the money to buy it either.  Cybercriminal operations are a business.  They have the structure, they have the human resources,  they have the arguments amongst themselves  about their timesheets and how much they're working.  Thank you to ContiLeaks, that was a lot of fun.  And they have basically unlimited money  and they will invest it in themselves.  I wanna give a shout out to my pals at Chainalysis  who published this terrific report on ransomware payments  and the cryptocurrency ecosystem supporting cybercrime  because ransomware payments exceeded $1 billion last year.  And this was after a little bit of a slump in 2022.  And ransomware payments are the end result  of all of this activity.  We can use ransomware and the effectiveness in ransomware  and how much people are paying as a barometer of success  for the entire ecosystem  that is supporting this type of attack.  So if ransomware is having a heyday,  then all of those businesses, all of that ecosystem  that is getting paid to support them  are also making that money.  It's called trickle-down economics, right?  Ransomware threat actors  and then all the people that they pay.  So let's think about how they're persistent.  This is actually, for me, pretty obvious  because e-crime actors will go after  literally the same targets every single day.  Like the definition of persistence  is just knocking on doors over and over and over again.  They see what works, fix what doesn't,  and they'll try again.  They have unlimited victim lists.  They have tons of people that they're going after  and companies that they're going after,  and it's the same ones.  Like, okay, well, if this didn't work, let me try it again.  They really don't care about burning tooling  because they only need to be right once, really,  for a massive payout, and then they can try something new.  If they're making a couple million dollars  off of one ransomware payment that uses a specific zero-day  or if they're able to gain access to a number  of pretty successful or rich targets  based off of a zero-day, they're gonna use it  because that will then pay for itself  in the development of the next thing once it's discovered.  It's also probably worth noting that disruptions  often have limited long-term impact on threat activity.  That's not to say that they're not hugely beneficial  and very important in a lot of different ways,  and I'm looking forward to hearing some folks later today  talk about lock bit disruption, for example, which was great.  But if an actor loses access  to one malware delivery infrastructure,  they will leverage the relationships,  they will leverage their finances and skill sets  to pivot to something new.  I think, again, talking about the Qbot disruption  that was made public in August of 2023, that was huge.  They lost access to so many hosts.  That was amazing.  TF577, who was the most prominent  and sophisticated deliverer of the Qbot malware,  took a slightly more extended break over the summer  than we typically see with them, but then they came back.  They came back with DarkGate.  They have a brief love affair with DarkGate,  they have a brief love affair with DarkGate.  Used Latrodectus a little bit, a few times,  and then they're like,  all right, we're going all in on PicoBot.  So they found their malware,  they found how they were gonna continue delivery.  All right, Qbot was disrupted, what's next?  And so we still see them in our threat data  continuing their activity.  It's also helpful to operate in jurisdictions  where you don't get in trouble.  It's very easy to be persistent  and keep doing the same things over and over again  if no one's gonna stop you.  This is, I hope, very self-explanatory.  They're a threat.  So this is just brief Googling  of some of the most impactful things  that I saw fairly recently.  I think the Illinois hospital closing,  being the first to close as a result of ransomware,  the first healthcare organization to close, was huge.  Shout out to Kevin Collier, who wrote the story for NBC News.  But they closed as a direct result of ransomware attacks.  You have almost 1,000 people losing their jobs  after a logistics firm closes because of a ransomware attack.  You have the ransomware attacks  on the manufacturing industry  costing the world economy $46 billion in downtime.  It's not just the ransomware payments themselves  that are enabling this criminal ecosystem,  but also the fallout of these attacks,  the follow-on repercussions,  and how they impact business, community,  and how people live our lives.  Also, schools just really pisses me off.  Like, kids aren't going to school  because you got ransomware?  Like, what?  How do we allow that?  That's crazy.  These are really just the tip of the iceberg.  These are just the ones that make the news, right?  There's so much that we don't see.  There's so much that just aren't told.  And this is all a result.  It's a culmination of a highly sophisticated,  advanced ecosystem of threat actors  learning from each other, talking to each other,  and avoiding and outmaneuvering defenders  and law enforcement.  That's why we keep reading these stories.  Also, side note, I'm not even talking about  the $64 billion that was made last year by pig butchering.  Okay, talk about a super sophisticated,  like, established cybercrime empire.  Okay, that's a totally different talk,  but also something I think we should probably  be focusing on a little bit more.  $64 billion, that's crazy.  All right, well, state actors have more long-game  strategic objectives that support various goals,  and there's sometimes no visible harm to the organization.  E-crime wants to hurt people to make money.  They don't care.  They wanna hurt you.  They wanna make this as painful as possible.  They want you to have to close your business  if you don't pay the money.  They want to see people get hurt,  and that, in my opinion, is a huge national security threat.  Going after critical infrastructure,  going after our schools, going after our communities  just to hurt people is very, very important  to the national security.  And focusing on disrupting cybercrime,  there's a ability to have immediate, very human impact,  and you can make bad guys feel bad, which is just delightful.  Historically focusing mainly on APT  as a cyber threat intelligence industry,  as people that are focusing  on the sort of threat-informed offense,  defenders have missed opportunities to disrupt cybercrime,  and I actually think that that has contributed  to the strength of the modern ecosystem.  Brief personal story time, if you will indulge me.  My sister, she lives in the South here in the United States.  She has been impacted by ransomware four times.  Four times.  She's a healthcare worker  and has been at two different hospitals  and healthcare facilities that have been ransomwared.  They had to pivot exclusively to paper.  They couldn't use digital resources.  All of the stuff that they were doing was old school,  as she likes to say.  And what I thought was really interesting,  as they were dealing with that,  she said it was really annoying and frustrating,  but the worst part, she said, was the rest of it,  the fallout, the having to transfer  all of that patient documentation  that they were taking notes by hand and digitizing it.  There's so much room for error there.  There's so much opportunity to potentially lose information  about your patients, about the people that you're helping.  And she said it was so stressful and frustrating.  That happened to her twice.  Then, colonial pipeline happened.  She texted me.  She's like, I'm in a line at the gas station.  Someone said there's an attack on America.  Like, I can't get my gas?  What's going on?  I was like, I know what's going on.  I'll tell you what's going on.  And while that particular attack  didn't really impact the flow,  it impacted, it had a flood, right?  This fear, uncertainty, and doubt in communities.  People ran to the gas stations.  They disrupted their lives.  They were freaking out.  My sister was like, okay,  I'm just gonna not drive for a few days.  She literally had no gas, so she couldn't,  but until things calmed down.  And I just think that that was so crazy  and so evident of the impacts  that that can have on communities.  As I was preparing for this talk,  I texted my sister.  I was like, hey, do you mind if I tell a roomful of people  that you've been impacted by ransomware three times?  And she's like, sure, but you're not gonna believe this.  And she sent me a screenshot of an application  that she was using to try and deal,  again, with healthcare information.  It didn't work.  She's like, I can't log in.  And I called a number that's listed on this page,  and I just get this robot voice telling me  that they've been a victim of a cyber attack.  She's like, I need to use this.  I need to see this information.  I need to pay my bills.  I'm like, what's happening?  And I said, I know what's happening.  Unfortunately, another ransomware impacted my sister.  All of this kind of happened at my sister.  Her response was, I guess I just have to accept this.  I guess this is just my life now.  Anytime her work, her society,  her life is disrupted by cybercrime,  her response is, eh, well, here we go again.  And that, to me, just breaks my heart.  I feel like we haven't done enough.  I don't wanna say that we failed,  because I think we're making a lot of really good progress.  But if we have the average human being being like,  okay, this is my life now, ha-ha, cybercrime.  Like, oh, well, I guess we got ransomwared.  Oh, well, I'm gonna have to change my life,  change my doctor, change where I'm going  to pick up city services because of crime.  That's not okay.  That is a huge national security threat,  and that is just unacceptable.  We need to do more, we need to be better.  And I think multiple talks throughout SleuthCon  are gonna figure out how we can address  some of these problems.  So, if all of this hasn't convinced you  that e-crime is at the level of APT  and those we take the most seriously,  I leave you with this quote.  Increasingly, you cannot tell which is which  when it comes to the criminal and the intelligence agency.  So, one day, the same crook may be doing something  purely to make a book, but that same crook  may be directed by a trained intelligence operative  using the same tools and techniques  to steal information for the goals of the state.  This was actually back in 2019,  and if you guys remember back to the timeline,  Cryptolocker, Zeus, ransomware,  this was a story about the guy  who was the first criminal kingpin,  Yevgeny Bogachev, and his acolytes.  And I wanna highlight using the same tools and techniques  because I think that's the most important.  As we're creating detections,  as we're learning the behaviors  of these sophisticated cybercriminal operations,  they are going to be used by government actors.  A throwback to last SleuthCon,  my colleague Greg Lesnowich talked about  how DPRK is one of those ones that constantly cribs  from cybercriminal actors to steal billions of dollars  to fund nuclear weapons in the hermit kingdom.  Kind of a big deal.  So if we're defending,  if we're focusing on disrupting the TTPs  of the most sophisticated cybercriminal actors,  we will have those follow-on attacks for APT.  Okay, why does any of this matter?  Why am I here?  Why are we all here at SleuthCon?  There's inherently a cool factor in APT,  and this influenced decision makers and threat researchers,  those of us in the room, to care about them differently.  Whoa, that was loud.  It influenced people to care about things differently.  And I think we should elevate the cool factor.  It shouldn't be just cybercrime.  Can't tell you how many conversations I've had with people,  other fellow threat researchers,  being like, oh, it's just ransomware.  Like, who cares?  This isn't this interesting.  This malware isn't that interesting.  It's just ransomware.  It's just a botnet.  And to me, that's really a bummer.  I mean, I do think APT is cool.  Obviously it matters.  Government espionage matters, too.  But we can't have this false dichotomy of either or.  We need to think about how these threat actors  are sophisticated, how they're using the tools  and techniques, elevate them to be on the same playing field  where we spend the same amount of resources,  attention, focus, and hopefully joy when we disrupt them,  to the most sophisticated in the cybercriminal landscape.  How we communicate threats impacts how organizations,  law enforcement, defenders, prioritize and deal with them.  Words matter.  When we're telling people what to care about, that matters.  If we are putting certain threat actors, et cetera,  on a pedestal and ignoring some of the things  that are most disruptive to people's lives,  accepting that this is the norm now, I guess,  we are doing a disservice to the organizations  that we're supporting and our society and community  that rely on us to protect them.  In reframing APT, we can change the mindset  from who did this to what is the risk and impact?  How can I deal with this?  And hopefully, I leave you with that,  and hopefully some new things to think about,  how you communicate the threats,  how you're thinking about cybercrime versus APT.  I mean, frankly, APT might just be an acronym  that we might have to get rid of.  I don't know, that's a talk for next year.  Yeah, that's it.  That's all I have for you guys.  Yeah!  Woo!  Woo!