{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sYINqevsk0Y",
  "title": "Opening Remarks | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\n\nOpening remarks from John Hultquist!",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 131,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 Good morning, Sleuths!  All right, I had a little speech set up for you guys, but you think I'm going to cut it  short because we are running late.  Here's what I've got for you.  Listen, the dirtbags that you guys track have gotten worse, right?  They are out of control.  They're hitting hospitals and schools.  They are attacking people's families.  They're attacking other researchers.  So what you do is so important, and I just want to thank you right now for everything  that you do.  Thank you for coming.  Thank you for being a part of this event.  Some other thank yous.  I want to thank you guys for making this happen.  I want to thank the virtual audience.  Your socks are coming in the mail shortly.  They literally just showed up at my house.  And I apologize for us trying to get everything working.  It's going to be smooth sailing from here on out, guys.  I know it.  Now, thank you everyone who submitted to our CFP.  We got so much good stuff.  It's an impossible choice.  I hope everybody understands.  I literally every year have to talk to people who are at the top of our industry and explain.  I just can't pick it all because we only have one track and one day, and we are flooded  with incredible submissions.  Thank you to our CFP board who makes that hard choice every year.  Thank you to our volunteers who show up and give free service.  We love you.  We can't do this without you.  Thank you to Digital Project Masters, Chris Peterson, you changed my life.  The whole Peterson clan is a part of this.  Thank you so much for everything you guys do.  Thank you to our sponsors, Vertex, Rubric, VMRay, Microsoft, Silent Push, CrowdStrike.  Thank you to my family who puts up with all my harebrained schemes.  Thank you, Selena, for running up here and getting us kicked off.  Where are you, Selena?