{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_PeHnt8Pjs",
  "title": "Ransomware's Crazy Uncle | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresented by Azim Khodjbaev\nJoin Azim Khodjbaev, senior threat intelligence analyst from Cisco Talos, dive into the chaotic and strange ransomware landscape while he exposes a notorious cybercriminal known as \u201cDziadka/Dydka\u201d, or Uncle (translated Russian to English). \n\nLearn more about Dydka's involvement in developing Babuk and Monti ransomware, and his role in major groups such as Conti, LockBit, and BlackMatter.\n\nAzim goes into depth about Dydka/Uncle's origins and evolution, gives insights about the ecosystem of ransomware, and some high-profile cyber attacks that involved the cybercriminal such as those from the DC Metro Police and Costa Rica.\n\nTimestamps:\n0:00 Intro/About\n02:09 Overview of Russian ransomware scene\n04:56 Background and early activities of \u201cUncle\u201d\n10:14 Involvement in major ransomware groups\n12:01 Deeper look into Monti and Babuk\n13:47 TTPs and signature \n15:04 Notable attacks\n17:22 Involvement with Wazawaka\n23:18 Mitigation and countermeasures\n26:54 Conclusion",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 1883,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 Thank you, everyone.  Great job, National Crime Agency.  You guys did great work.  We're so proud of you.  This is a little bit related.  So today I'm going to talk about, you know, that crazy uncle that everybody has and inevitably  has to deal with one time or another.  And that's the story I'm going to tell you all today.  A little bit about myself.  I've been a cyber threat intelligence at Cisco Talos for just under nine years.  I've learned quite a bit in that time.  Lucky for me, I am a native Russian speaker, which makes my job a little bit easier and  allows me to do adversarial engagement is what we call it.  But it's pretty much talking to bad guys or talking to anybody directly to obtain intelligence  that helps us protect our customers.  I am not LockBit, as you guys know.  I've been accused of that by many of you in jest.  Not Bratva or Bastard Lord, thankfully.  I'm a rule follower.  I don't like to make people upset too much.  On occasion I am a meme maker that may have got under your skin.  I apologize for that.  But most of the time I get a good response for my memes.  I'm still searching for the 99 cent glizzy that you talked about a few years ago.  That is part of my quest.  I don't believe that it exists.  But I don't want to undermine your intelligence collection.  So I'm still looking for it, okay?  I don't think the prices are going to be real for those.  At the end of the day, in essence, I sleuth around on the Internet.  And the meme there implies most of the time it's late at night.  And I'm using speech to text for Russian because I can't keep up with typing it.  And occasionally my wife will come downstairs and ask, what are you doing and who are you  talking to?  And my response now is Jake from State Farm.  Just a quick outlook on what's going on in the Russian ransomware scene from my point  of view.  There's a little bit of panic going on.  There's a few punches that law enforcement and cyber threat intelligence has been able  to blow in this ecosystem.  It's not dead by any means.  You guys obviously know that.  But ever since the Mikhail Matveev indictment about a year ago, that was one of the first  blows to the ecosystem.  Then the subsequent Hive disruption and the magnum opus of lock bit disruption and interdiction  seriously sent these guys into a big panic mode.  There's a huge splintering going on.  There's affiliates moving around.  There's affiliates disengaging, taking breaks.  And what's interesting, the splintering has actually been affected by the subject of my  talk today.  And we'll talk about how he became kind of the godfather of these splintering groups.  Uncle or Piper.  So the name is a little confusing.  I'm going to refer to them as Uncle.  Because in Russian, dyadka or dudka, kind of intermixed, dudka is a pipe flute where  dyadka is uncle.  The spelling of that user name and moniker was different at times.  So this individual goes by both.  The first time I ever heard of a dyadka or uncle was when they claimed to have had stage  four cancer on the Russian forum XSS and decided to leak, they claimed responsibility for being  the Babuk source, Rensiware source, excuse me, the Babuk Rensiware developer, and they  ultimately leaked the Babuk source code right about the end of 2021.  He's got pretty decent coding skills, to be honest with you.  Way better than any, my understanding, I'm not a coder.  But he's been praised one way or another in the community for his skills.  Horrible people skills.  Doesn't really make good friends, and if he does make good friends, it's for the wrong  reasons and usually has the ability to lose friendships or somehow undermine trust.  He's been in pretty much every single Rensiware group there is under the sun as an affiliate  and has also created two major Rensiware families, Babuk and Monty.  What's true is the reason I used Uncle Buck here is that he's caused havoc in just about  every group that he's been a part of and in the community, including with his friends.  We'll talk a little bit more about that.  So who is Dyadka or Dyadka?  They all started out just like all of us.  Video games lead to hacking, and that's bad.  This individual is really into Minecraft, and when I'm talking about really into Minecraft,  like this is even too much even just for any human being.  Spends constantly, still to this day, plays a lot of Minecraft and started out years ago  trying to cheat and do these things where they can activate games, all the natural stuff  of a natural cyber criminal, right?  So he started out video games, started on forums asking about how to create cheaters  and all that.  Continued to develop their skills and dabbled into creating obfuscators and encrypt the  payloads and started making little money off that.  Wow, money for a young person.  Great stuff.  So they switched over and still self-taught, continued to refine their skills, started  making info-stealers.  Then they realized right around the same time that ransomware was, as a service, was coming  out and becoming big as far as attacking networks, and they dabbled into that.  So they were able to be a part of a team that helped create the Babook ransomware, and they  were pretty much the predominant developer.  A little bit more background.  They are from Russia.  They are young, typically, for what we've been used to, but not too far.  They were born in the early 2000s.  They missed out on a lot of the fun time in Russia that was the 1990s.  So I mean, pretty normal upbringing, right?  Politically stable, economy's good.  Like I said, he's a huge gamer.  Who isn't?  Python, C++, and Java are the languages that are very natural to him.  He really likes it.  So those are the main things that he codes in.  Huge into the party lifestyle.  And when you have a lot of money, right, we make you from ransomware.  Why not?  We're talking about going out for every meal, you know, not being bored, lavish parties  every so often, and a lot of drugs, a lot of recreational drugs, and his drug of choice,  ecstasy.  And I'll tell you who got him hooked on that, actually.  I mentioned that this individual causes a lot of havoc, right?  It's a lot of crazy stories.  Too many to go into every single one of them, but I'll tell you that they did not die of  cancer.  They didn't have stage four cancer.  They did that in order to obfuscate their tracks and think that this developer actually  died.  A lot of people in the community played along with him.  Wazawaka was actually the one that started spreading that idea in the underground.  In fact, he even tricked, and this is literally from his, you know, a quote from him.  He was happy enough to trick Baster Lord into donating to him and laughed about it for quite  some time.  Allegedly, Baster Lord donated thousands of dollars to him for healthcare.  He accused me of being a part of Conti.  Some of you may or may not have seen that, but Conti one time published some victim and  then literally said I was the one that targeted them.  That was a funny moment, especially calling, well, I believe the Nashville field office  and telling them, hey, that's not me.  But they have a pretty vindictive nature to them.  And as I said, the leaking of a book was intentional, and they did that in order to kind of hide  their tracks after the DC Metro Police Department attack.  I'll get a little bit more into that.  And here's one thing that I heard him say directly, but I don't have any proof, but  he does go around saying that he feels bad for turning off life support system in a hospital  one time during an attack.  So don't know if that's actually true.  If the law enforcement guys know that that actually happened, that could be him.  Negotiations.  Extremely tough negotiator.  Takes things very, very personally and has that vindictive nature.  If he's slighted or somehow undermined, he immediately goes into this crazy response  mode and starts maybe not responding or escalating or starts leaking data, but it's not a very  easy person to negotiate.  So he does not have those people skills that gets him the outcome that he wants, right?  A payout.  What's really funny, and I think ProDraft did mention this, so I got to give him kudos,  and this is verified, is that he uses psychic tarot readers in order to set prices or ask  them what to do in situations where he doesn't have a clear outcome or doesn't feel in the  position of power.  That's actually influenced by his mom, who is really, really into it and got him hooked  on psychic tarot readers.  She actually travels around Russia to find the best psychic tarot readers to, I guess,  to fulfill her superstitious needs.  It's very interesting.  So just a quick confirmed list of all the ransomware families that Dyatka, or Dudka,  was a part of.  There's the Conti post that he made targeting me back in 2022, early 2022, January 22,  and so Black Matter, anybody remember Black Matter?  Yeah, funny story.  Remember Khajiit?  Don't worry, I'm not Khajiit.  Khajiit's actually still around, but him, Khajiit, and Wazawaka decided to undermine  Black Matter when they got into it, and they were instrumental in its shutdown, but that's  not really important.  He got into a huge fight with Donut Ransomware very recently, over $100,000, and published  them on his Monty blog.  So again, very, very disruptive and abrasive.  He did get into the Lockbit project early on, but then again, got into an argument with  Lockbit over money, very huge ego, and decided that he deserved more.  We all know how Lockbit took that, because two egos don't really work too well together,  so he stopped working for him.  And then Avos, Conti, Goga, all the other major ones that he got into.  He also, on the side, those were his earnings on the side, excuse me.  He also was running Monty and Babook at a certain time.  Monty was created about 2023 of April, I believe.  And so SunCrypt and Hive were also some of the, he executed some major attacks with them.  So yeah, let's take a little closer look into Babook and Monty.  Babook, or Babak, was created predominantly by him.  He wasn't the sole creator, but he mostly did the work.  The Metro DC, because I always get that wrong, the DC Metropolitan Police Department was  targeted by them, and it caused huge disruptions.  They're right across the river, they're the number one law enforcement agency for DC.  And they actually got scared because of that.  I'll get a little bit more into that later, in just a few slides.  And eventually they're like, look, they're gonna go after us.  Let's leak it and let everybody have it.  That means everyone's gonna use it, and once they start using it, they're not gonna just  go after us, right?  We're just gonna muddy the waters.  It kind of worked, but not really.  You guys are the brightest people, you guys figured it out immediately, I think.  Malware Hunter team, Trend Micro, a lot of folks immediately started tracking Babook variants.  He, after the Conti leaks, he was a part of that.  In fact, he also tried to implicate me and another Russian researcher quite, again, in  the leaks.  When they knew they were being monitored, he tried to target me again, which is kind  of funny.  He decided to create a new one.  He realized that Conti was going away, he created Monty based on Conti, and again, researchers  were immediately able to pick that up, but he did another version later on.  I'll get a little bit more about that.  So TTPs and some of the signatures, boy, does he love himself some ESXi hosts and Linux  servers.  His modifications to ransomware families typically include applying a different encryption algorithm,  that's one of the first things he does, and he also enhances obfuscation.  He's pretty good about obfuscating detection, so that's the first thing he'll go after.  Really he's really, really into zero days and proof of concepts when it comes to VPN  providers and platforms.  He even has dedicated usernames for those particular attacks.  Fortnit and SonicWall are some of his most major attacks and lucrative, he's got usernames  associated with that.  I will admit, Cisco is a huge target for him just because Cisco is pretty prevalent.  We're also known to have a lot of zero days here and there, so I didn't want to exclude  that.  This is a screenshot from his personal folder that works on his ransomware builders.  Again, let's go back to some of the most major attacks that he was a part of, and this is  something that he personally claimed, the DC Metro Police Department and the Costa Rica  government that happened with Conti in the spring of 2022.  Both operations were extremely impactful on the victim.  The operations were shut down, millions of dollars in damage, people could not get their  services done, bad things happened, essentially.  As I said, the first event really scared Jatka and Wazowaka, they were part of the same team  working that, and what they thought was that the camaraderie between police departments  in the U.S. and Russia would actually be bigger than the camaraderie between possible connections  between intelligence services and law enforcement in Russia and cyber-related stuff.  And they got scared that police would look out for each other and actually go after them,  and that was the big reason to leak Babook and let it all go, and eventually impact the  ransomware world, because now we have a source code that could be modified by just about  anybody.  Conti was the last hurrah.  They decided to use that after the leaks, most of the team disappeared and went off  into the void and rebranded to Black Bastard or whatever it was, and they decided to still  use the panel and the builder.  In fact, Jatka wanted to use his new project, Monty at the time, but Wazowaka advised him  against it because it was going to be blamed on Conti and the implications were going to  all be focused on Conti, something that's going to go away.  And so Wazowaka kind of advised that for strategic purposes, let's not use Monty yet.  These are other claimed attacks that he was a part of, personally claimed, and I've been  able to verify that they did exist and were public.  Very, very prolific attacker and got some payouts in these, unfortunately.  Let's take a closer look at this relationship.  You guys all remember Wazowaka, the crazy guy?  Yeah, of course we all do.  He's all over the place.  They've been working together for quite a long time.  I didn't list all of Wazowaka's monikers because it doesn't matter.  We got an indictment.  His days are numbered.  Hopefully one day this individual will get an indictment.  By the way, I do know his identity.  I'm not going to share it publicly here or on video.  I will share it with researchers and law enforcement agencies one-on-one, so please reach out to  me if you want to know the intelligence behind this.  But these are all the names that he was a part of, excuse me, usernames that he had  for different types of platforms that I've been able to track specifically to those and  they're listed there.  Their relationship is actually kind of weird, okay?  They are both known to be very emotional individuals and one is a little bit more mature than the  other, but honestly, they're about the same.  And while they do work together and have had successful operations, they actually have  a really hot-cold relationship like the Katy Perry song where they go into periods of moments  where they hate each other, plot against each other, undermine and backstab each other,  and maybe even leak information about each other to me.  Wazowaka's, Dutka's connection, there's a lot.  There's quite a bit, but one of the first ones that got to me was back in the day when  I was looking into the Costa Rica attack, I noticed that the talks ID that was used  by Boris Yeltsin and Uncle 1756, who was Wazowaka on exploit and XSS, was the same one that  was being used by Slonikval and Gribademon, which is also, that's Dutka and Dyatka.  So they were using the same talks ID to communicate about projects or ransomware and the things  that they do on forums like buying access or trying to figure out a zero day.  What was the overall impact on their relationship?  We're talking about tens of millions of dollars of damage, okay?  They are also causing a lot of disruptions and distrust within the community, okay?  That's really interesting to us because that's how we get a lot of information when they  start backstabbing each other.  It's just cool.  I know that it's not the most lucrative way to get information, but nevertheless, it's  still allows us to be impactful.  So they lied about Black Matter, and that really, really pissed off a lot of people.  And as I said, the biggest victim of that was Khajiit, and they disappeared, as far  as their moniker, but they're still around.  They're not, it doesn't appear, according to Dyatka, Khajiit does not have FSB connections.  They're just somebody that wanted to get into the game, wanted to make a lot of money, and  then messed this whole thing up, thanks to Wazowaka.  That was the story.  They also created GRAMP.  If you remember the old Babook or Babak infrastructure, they shut that down, right, after the police  department attack, and they decided to create this ransomware malware platform forum, right?  And Orange was Wazowaka, the admin behind it, but Dyatka was also very instrumental  in helping develop the site, run the site, and then eventually, Wazowaka apparently locked  him out of it.  Created Monty, based on the Conti source code, and then modified it again.  Another impact is he got a huge drug addiction.  The story goes is that he was struggling with body image, and he shared and lamented that  to his buddy at the time, Wazowaka, and Wazowaka said, do certain drugs, amphetamines, and  ecstasy, and you'll be able to lose weight and also have fun, and that's allegedly what  he did.  And there's a lot of manipulation and backstabbing, as I said.  They go after each other.  The moment they don't get what they want, it's like children with money and power.  They go really, really hard.  It's very interesting, actually, to see that, and it's very easy to take advantage of that,  if you're strategic about it.  One thing I will share with you, they plotted to hurt me, both of them, and this was an  active threat that one time I called John Holtwist two days before, I don't remember  which event it was, but I said, hey, buddy, I can't come, I'm sorry, and he was like,  hey, no problem, and then I was like, you know what, I will come, because I'm tired  of these threats.  I got a call from law enforcement saying, hey, there's an active threat against you.  You may want to be careful, and so they allegedly plotted what they called a hit to physically  harm me.  And how rich is this crazy uncle?  Everybody's got a crazy uncle who's a little rich, right?  Hopefully he gets some money.  Well, as of two days ago, their wallet still got about a million bucks in it, and four  months ago it was about $600,000, but Bitcoin and Ethereum went up, and so at the moment  he's got about a million bucks.  National Crime Agency, please go take it, that would be great, just lock it down, be  very grateful for that.  Most of the money is in Bitcoin, but a huge chunk is also in Ethereum.  This was actually very thankful from Chainalysis to give us a little hint, he looks like a  pretty sophisticated person when it comes to crypto.  He pays a lot of attention and does a lot of NFT transactions and does a lot of cryptocurrency  swaps, so you won't see quite a lot of blockchain transactions directly to another wallet, but  a lot of different internal transactions, which is interesting.  A few weeks ago he moved $50,000 somewhere, who knows, maybe it was the LockBit stuff.  All right, so what can we do?  What can we do?  Well, you guys already know what we do, but just to reiterate some of the stuff he's really  into, okay?  I noticed the moment there is a zero-day news, we see it on Twitter or X, excuse me, immediately,  right?  Proof of concepts or boom, boom, boom, there's some sort of vulnerability out there.  These guys go after that, and this particular individual, it's like a game to him.  He really is, he'll actually stop playing Minecraft in order to explore that, and he'll  read every single line of that proof of concept or summary, and he will go try it.  He gets a really good kick out of that, but he's not really that great of a pen tester,  and that relationship with Wazowaka is Wazowaka did all the pen testing, excuse me, that's  what they would call it, they did all the intrusion, whereas Dyadka served as the technical  expert and the blog maintenance person, okay?  So that's very, very interesting.  Once they had that initial access, whether it was through a vulnerability or through  purchased credentials or through the VPN vulnerability, like I said, encryption happens immediately.  They don't sit around and play, they don't explore.  This person specifically goes after money.  There is no indication that they have a desire to take this information somewhere.  They just want to immediately interact.  It's like a sick, sadistic game.  They want to see a person suffer with encryption.  That's the way that I would describe their thought process.  Once they have that encryption done, like I said, that sadism, they immediately want  to contact and put a lot of pressure on the victim.  That uses social engineering, corporate pressure, corp calls as they call them, but they will  engage the victim in every single way possible in order for them to constantly put pressure  on them.  Again, it seems like it crosses a personal line where it's like a game game for him.  Loves VPNs, if you've got a virtual environment, you're on his list.  He loves virtual environments.  Like I said, social engineering, they will leverage third party offers, or excuse me,  third party groups on the dark web that do social engineering calls.  You will get a call in native English to have somebody that knows a lot about your corporation,  did the homework, and will get the point across.  That's the kind of stuff that they do.  And municipalities.  I've observed discussions between Jyotka and another unnamed individuals chatting about  how municipalities, governments, schools, hospitals, anybody that has a public facing  service that is reliant on that daily service is huge on their list.  They love to go after these targets because they know the pressure to restore these services  is much bigger than the concern over budgets and money.  They really just want to restore operations.  Not only that, they know that these municipalities' budgets are not exactly in tune with backups  and making sure that all the protections are there, so they know that backups don't exist.  At the end of the day, even if you have backups, they know PII.  They know the importance of PII, and anything that has PII, say, of children or healthcare  patients, they know that that's very valuable information.  They've personally discussed this, and they will go after it.  All right.  Just to close out with a few minutes left, these are some of the indicators that I've  collected of them.  I'll give you a moment to take a picture of that if you want.  You guys are all amazing sleuthers.  I think I encourage all of you to explore some of these indicators.  I think you'll find some good stuff on there, one way or the other.  When we all come together as one, like the Avengers, we can all do some good stuff.  So please take this information and run with it, and hopefully I will see some of the research  you guys have done on it.  Just like that, as I said, as I close out, what I see in the next, whatever, short term,  is they will continue to splinter, but unfortunately, people like Dyatka and Dudka don't make it  easier on us.  When they leak the Babook source code, when they leak the Monty source code, which, by  the way, Monty's source code was leaked, but it wasn't him.  That was somebody else.  It was kind of instrumental in its intelligence, but that was somebody else that did that to  him.  When these happen, new guys that don't have to do this from the ground up, right, develop  these source codes from the ground up, just take it, modify it, and now you have Medusa.  Now you have all these other families, right, and you continue to have these little tiny  shops that do ransomware.  Not only that, I could see a bunch of different families coming together and being used by  one group in order to stay under the radar and avoid detection and not be attributed  to one particular ransomware group.  I think law enforcement, the good guys, are going to continue to get better.  The private partnership is going to build trust.  We're already there.  I love working with some of our law enforcement partners, and they're going to get good at  it.  The budgets are going to get bigger.  The trust is going to grow, and I think we're going to see more interdiction.  I hope.  And what is really interesting, and I hope we're all cheering for this, is there's going  to be a lot more infighting within these ransomware groups.  That is what I see with these kind of people that have emotions and egos tied into the  game, and we see that a lot with LockBit, and the trust is getting undermined, and sowing  distrust is something that we can all be impactful for, and I'm not encouraging you to go out  there and troll these people, which is fine.  But I do encourage you to publish information that demonstrates that they are just as untrustworthy  to each other as they are to their victims and everybody else, because at the end of  the day, and this is a new moniker I can tell you, they're scattered roaches, not scattered  spiders.  All right.  I have a few seconds left.  What is he up to?  It looks like yet another diversion to about a week and a half ago, it looks like he claimed  that the project has been sold, and I'm not sure if that's true or not.  I don't believe it.  And here's a really cool thing.  I'll leave you all with this.  Here's something really, really cool I found that was in a folder that belonged to him.  It is file images titled 1, 2, 3, and it looks like a picture of something buried in  a park, and if you really get closer to it, it's really wrapped up quite a bit, and there's  coordinates, too.  Anyone want to take a picture of those coordinates and later figure out where that is?  It's in Kaliningrad, Russia.  The enclave in Europe, yep, yep.  And who else lives in Kaliningrad?  Wazowaka, yes.  So did they bury something there?  Who knows?  We don't know.  We can't get there, but hopefully somebody can.  What's interesting is there was another folder titled 1, 2, 3, and it looked like what it  looked like were security keys for a crypto wallet.  So maybe that's his personal crypto wallet.  National Crime Agency, please go find it.  All right, guys, that's all I have.  I hope it was informative.  Thank you so much.  Thank you to John.  Thank you to Sherrod.  Wonderful, wonderful event.