{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4pHetxWDzEQ",
  "title": "Tales from the Crypt(er): The Market and Dynamics That Inform Attribution | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresentation by Bavi Sadayappan, Mandiant\nIn a world where security solutions are constantly evolving, so are cybercriminals and their methods. One such method is crypters, a tool designed to spread malware on a mass-scale while remaining undetected.\nBavi Sadayappan, a Senior Threat Analyst from Madiant, offers deep insight into how cybercriminals leverage crypters in their attacks. She discusses the market of crypters, and how their specific business models help analysts enhance their attribution and analysis. Discover the differences between private vs public crypters, and the unique timeline of their advertisement in underground forums.\n\nTimestamps:\n0:00 Introduction/about\n01:02 What is a crypter?\n01:56 Where can I buy a crypter?\n04:58 How can crypters help attribution?\n09:26 Closing remarks",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 592,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 I'm a threat analyst on the financial crime team at Mandiant, and today I want to talk  about something a little less controversial than banning ransomware payment.  What I want to talk about is a group of malware that actors call cryptors.  So I want us to take a second and get into the mindset of your average cybercriminal.  Let's say we're distributing a lot of Redline Stealer or some very common, highly detected  malware.  What's a question that's going to come up over and over again for us?  How can I keep my malware undetected for as long as possible?  And the answer for a lot of cybercriminals is going to be cryptors.  So a good cryptor is going to allow us to distribute fully undetected payloads for at  least a short period of time.  But let's level set really quick.  What do I mean when I say cryptor?  What really is a cryptor?  At a very, very high level, a cryptor is just a builder.  It takes an input, your malware payload, it modifies it using a variety of obfuscation  and encryption mechanisms, and it spits out an output, your cryptid payload.  So the expectation here is that cryptid payload is going to bypass common detection methods  for some period of time.  Cryptid payloads have two main components.  You have your stub and the embedded payload.  So the stub is a piece of code whose responsibility is to decode and execute that embedded payload.  At Mandiant, we track cryptid payloads as droppers.  And today, I'm going to be focusing on publicly available cryptors, and I will not be talking  about commercially available services.  So getting back into that cybercriminal mindset, now that we know the benefits of a cryptor,  the next big question for us is, well, where can I get one?  It's pretty obvious, essentially any underground forum.  But what's interesting about cryptors is that they have seen significant longevity on these  underground forums, which kind of bucks the norm with what we normally see with commonly  used tools and services, which tend to have shorter lifespans.  We've seen ads for cryptors since 2006, and one of the most prominent cryptors right now,  VIP Crypt, has been active for 13 years.  We analyzed dozens and dozens of these advertisements, and what we found is that their business models  fall into two main buckets.  You have self-service and you have managed.  So with the self-service business model, the customer is going to receive access to  that builder.  They're going to be able to encrypt their own payloads at their own speed, as opposed  to managed, where the customer is going to provide the malware to the service provider.  They're going to encrypt it and send it back to you.  The pricing model for these different services, it varies pretty drastically, and it depends  on a variety of different factors.  And the three big ones that we identified are availability of the stub, the timeframe  of your subscription, and whether or not there are any premium offers bundled in.  So as we know, stub is that piece of code that's going to decode and execute your embedded  payload.  There are two main flavors of stub.  You're going to have your private stubs and public stub.  So private, you the customer, the only one who has access to that, as opposed to public,  you and a bunch of other customers have access to that particular stub, so it's more widely  available.  Your encrypted payloads are likely going to get detected a little bit quicker.  So as you can imagine, public stubs, a little cheaper than private stubs.  We also wanted to see what types of malware are being encrypted.  So we identified four major crypters that are publicly available, and we looked for  malware samples that were crypted by them and uploaded to VirusTotal in the past year.  And what we found is that over 40% are information stealers.  But what's kind of interesting is that a quarter of these payloads are, in fact, ransomware.  The vast majority are of this stop ransomware family, also called Deja Vu.  So typically, when we see stop ransomware, it's being distributed using SEO poisoning.  So you're really relying on the victim to download and execute the ransomware themselves.  There's no post-compromise activity.  You don't have a threat actor in the environment able to disable any antivirus software.  So it's really critical when that ransomware hits disk that it's not causing a lot of alerts  to go off.  So it makes sense that we're seeing a lot of that crypted.  And now I want us to now put our analyst hats back on.  So we can delve into why and how understanding crypters can help us with our analysis.  So for us, one of the key aspects that we look for when we're using crypters to support  our analysis is identifying whether the crypter is publicly available or if it's privately  available.  So with publicly available crypters, those are going to be advertised on underground  forums.  You're going to see a lot of different actors crypting a lot of different types of malware.  And so really, it shouldn't play a significant role in your attribution efforts.  Now on the flip side, private crypters are not going to be advertised on underground  forums.  You're typically just going to see one threat cluster or a group of shared trusted partners  using that tool.  So it can suggest relationships between actors.  And it can play a more significant role in attribution.  Now I know it can sometimes be a little bit difficult to map that crypted payload back  to the advertisement.  But there are some great publicly available tools and research on common crypters.  And also, you can kind of make an educated guess in a lot of cases.  So if you're seeing only one or two malware samples in a specific period of time being  crypted by a specific tool, that could suggest private versus if you're seeing a bunch of  different malware family being crypted, that's going to suggest public.  I want to delve into a recent example where we were able to use our understanding of crypters  to understand some new threat activity.  So last month, we came across what at the time we thought was a new Rust-based credential  stealer that we track as Storm Shadow.  While we were doing some analysis, we realized that the earliest versions appeared to have  shown up in around May of 2023.  We noticed that the majority of Storm Shadow payloads that we were seeing were cryptic.  So we mapped out what crypter was used and at what time.  And what we found was kind of interesting.  So from May of 2023 through the end of February 2024, all crypted Storm Shadow payloads used  a publicly available crypter.  The majority of them used VIP Crypt, which we track as Longfall.  And then for a hot second in July 2023, they were testing out, it appeared, MassCrypt,  another popular crypting tool, which we track as Bad Mood.  But then we saw a shift in March of 2024 from publicly available crypters to what we suspect  is a private crypter.  Beginning in March of 2024, all crypted Storm Shadow payloads used a crypter we track as  DryRotv2.  And we've only seen a very small subset of threat actors use this crypter.  We then realized after we had done a bit of analysis that we actually had some more  information about Storm Shadow in our holdings.  Specifically, we had a post from an actor back in May of 2023, seeking crypto partnerships  specifically for Storm Shadow.  And then in July of 2023, they posted a positive review of VIP Crypt saying, this is great.  I've been using it for two months.  So that really aligns with what we were seeing with Storm Shadow being crypted using VIP  Crypt through 2023.  We then took a look at the distribution techniques.  So in 2023, Storm Shadow was being distributed using fairly common tactics.  You know, fake installer websites hosted on Dropbox.  But when we saw that shift from public to private crypter, we also saw an increase in  sophistication of the distribution tactics.  So we saw a newly tracked loader, SSLoad, pushing out Storm Shadow in March of 2024.  And then in April, we saw maldocs that were hosted on the legitimate blockchain support  URL being distributing Storm Shadow.  So what can we infer from this?  We're seeing a shift from public to private crypter at the same time that we're seeing  an increase in sophistication when it comes to distribution tactics.  So one theory that emerged is that the actor associated with Storm Shadow at the beginning  of 2024 partnered up with actor or actors that had access to DryRot V2 and more sophisticated  distribution techniques.  We were only able to come to this assessment because we were able to track and identify  what crypters were being used and because we knew their availability.  That's all the time I have today.  I very quickly want to give a shout out to one of my financial crime teammates whose  incredible technical prowess is the only reason we're able to track crypters to the  granularity.  They know who they are.  So thank you so much and thank you all for listening.