{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KBI1TqIqxzI",
  "title": "The Untold Stories of Bassterlord\u2019s Manuals | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "Carlos Borges, an intel analyst from Intel 471, joins us at Sleuthcon 2024 all the way from Brazil to discuss a cybercriminal who has made waves within the cybercrime world, who has ties to LockBit and is training others to follow in his footsteps; Bassterlord.\n\nCarlos unveils Bassterlord\u2019s timeline within his talk, tracking his activity in chronological order since 2016, providing exclusive highlights into the content of his manuals, and discusses how the US Dept. of Treasury exposed him and his links to LockBit. Through his talk, Carlos provides case studies and explanations of the criminal\u2019s methods in action, and examines the hackers online identities as well. \n\nCarlos also provides new information concerning the appearance of a new persona and new manual that focuses on exploiting corporate targets.\n\n@intel471_Inc \n\nTimestamps:\n0:18 Agenda\n1:08 Operation Cronos Intro\n2:12 Intro to Bassterlord\n2:47 Timeline\n9:48 First interview\n12:51 First manual published\n15:00 Updated manual published\n17:17 Second manual published\n21:12 Overview of manuals\n27:19 New personas\n28:30 Bonus manual",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 1791,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 I'm Carlos Borges. I'm from Brazil. I came straight from, you know, South America just  for this event. And I'm an Intel analyst for Intel 471. Today, we'll speak... Let me see  if I can turn... Oh! Thank you! So, today we will talk about Basil Lord and the manuals  he crafted during his... The latest years to teach novice actors in getting into brain  server operations. So, the agenda today is not exactly linear, as you can see, but we  will cover some things like key events that led the actor to the publication and crafting  of those manuals. We will make an overview of those manuals to understand some interesting  and key concepts that he introduced there. We have a big timeline to cover. We will provide  some link analysis and crypto overview. I will disclose a few additional personas which  are not public, and we will talk about TTPs. Let's move it on. So, yes, this presentation  is a lot... Was a lot motivated by, you know, Operation Crumbs in February. One of the good  outcomes of the operation is that the US Department of Treasure announced two Russian  nationals and disclosed their identity and links with the LockBit gang. One of them is  Artur Sengetov, and the other one is, of course, our objective here, Ivan Kondratiev, aka Bastard  Lord. So, this is a big timeline to cover. Don't worry much about it. I will walk you  through some of the key events, so you can see, like, on the bottom right side, we are  on the end of the timeline, see about Operation Crumbs and the disclosure of his persona.  However, we will take a look, you know, like since 2016. So, Bastard Lord, just a quick  introduction. So, he's an initial access broker. He's a reputable hands-on operation. He was  also a malware spammer. Those are a few of the public handles he used, so we have the  National Hazard Agents, which is a handle he used but also a reference to a cybercrack  game, The Actor Assemble. There's a Bastard Lord with one S, Fishy Eye, Buster, Alexo,  and Seener. Let's start with our timeline. According, you know, The Actor claimed this  in a lot of different sources which will be covered throughout the presentation. He said  that he started engaging in cybercrime between 2016 and 2018. At the time, he was engaging  with certain optimization, carding, and hacking websites. Then he got into 2019, The Actor  joined the XSS forum, and there he was already engaging with malware spamming campaigns.  By the end of that year, like the fourth quarter of 2019, The Actor joined Lelartus, I guess  as most of you know he's a reputable affiliate, and Lelartus was a sort of mentor who teached  Bastard Lord a lot of hands-on operations. I can't see exactly the timeline here, but  I believe that we are now in 2020 on the first month, so, yes, June 2020. There's a very  interesting major event, I guess, for Bastard Lord which is the participation on this summer  article contest promoted by the LockBeat gang in partnership with the XSS administrators.  The idea behind this was that the LockBeat gang paid a prize for the best articles, most  interesting articles related to cybersecurity and cybercrime, but that could support hands-on  operations. Bastard Lord participated in that, created a thread, and on that thread, he disclosed  some of his background, some details of the initially first rich organisations, and his  experience of exploiting the CV 2019, 11.5.10, which basically targets secure VPNs. It was  his first public appearance that draws more attention for us researchers. It looked like  the actor enjoyed the attention received, and the same month, he published this spamming tutorial.  On this spamming tutorial, he spoke about a lot of, it was a very detailed tutorial,  and he spoke about tools he used and abused, like AMS Enterprise, the use of Xlead 2 underground  to get access and purchase access to compromised SMTP service, and the LTSpace product which is  a legitimate service for proxies, so the idea would be to hide the origins of the malware  campaigns. The thing is that, on that tutorial, he put that screenshot at the right side, and he  disclosed the user name on the service. So, this is like our first moniker likely operated by the  actor. So, we identified a profile on hacker forums which matches the same activity demonstrated  by the actor in reference to malware spamming operations. We also identified some other leads,  but that still needs double sourcing, so I will not disclose here, but this should be basically  like Discord accounts and similar communication channels. Moving on. He published a second  tutorial, but I don't call that exactly a tutorial, because that's basically a 10-minute video  illustrating him breaching an organisation. So, the whole process was recorded, and he posted that  explaining some of the steps. On that video, we can cite things like initial access via compromised  QSecure VPN, the use of the soft perfect which the actor enjoys a lot and you can see that very  often, lateral movement, and privilege escalation. The most interesting thing here is that  this video is a precursor to the publication of the manual which will occur like one year later  in August 2021, so many of those things that we can see on the first manual were actually  demonstrated on this video. I won't play the video here to not expose the victim organisation,  but I took a few screenshots of the main, I would say, events from the video. So, on this one,  the actor was accessing the company with the compromised QSecure VPN accounts. This is his  machine, his VPS machine. A lot of folders and files he was operating. Once he got access to the  VPN network, he started running soft perfect. He makes a really simple recon to identify  the network on the VPN connection he got, and he uses the same credentials to log on the VPN  to perform an authenticated scan with soft perfect. With that information, with that setup,  he already could identify machines accessible to that VPN network that he could access with  those credentials. This is what you are seeing in the screenshot. So, once he finds a good target  for him, he performs lateral movement via RDP there, and he dumps the process. He exfiltrates  that file to his machine and imports that into Mimikatz. From there, the actor can get access to  plain text credentials, and he uses that to make a new authenticated scan with more elevated  credentials, and he also uses an interesting feature from network perfect scanner to import  all the machines from active directory. So, basically, he starts poking every machine on the  network with those more elevated credentials. So, this is the results. This is basically what we're  seeing here are more accessible machines. The actor kind of highlights the machines with more  disk space which would mean they are good targets for Hanksworth to lock. And the video ends.  Okay, so, moving on. During that time, the actor draws attention from Lockbit,  and he receives an invite to join the programme. We also identify some good evidence  of him working as an initial access broker for Avedon during that same period.  Moving on timeline. On February 2021, the actor provided an interview to the actor  Yashichka. I usually say that. I'm not sure what is correct.  They apparently developed a good relationship, and one thing worth mentioning is that  Yashichka was a translator of cybersecurity articles within the XSS board.  On that interview, the actor provided a few details of his personal life. He claimed to  operate as an affiliate for this Hanksworth programme, Lockbit, and Avedon, and he was heavily  criticised by several members of the XSS, especially due to the public attention we received,  and most of them called it a mediocre ransom operation due to some basic techniques.  He claimed at the time to operate in only a few underground forums, like one and two,  maybe XSS only, you know. However, this is a simplified version, and link analysis we made,  and I would highlight this simplified version if we have more, of some of those handles he used.  So, starting with Bastelord on the XSS, we just make a connection where he was using a  Telegram account linked to Siener, which is a handle that became public in February.  So Bastelord shared that Jabber account below, and that same Jabber account was also used  on Raider forums and the Exploit forums. On Exploit, he was using the handle editor which  is a reference, a possible reference that the actor was working with web designer before,  you know, getting into cybercrime. This was his claim. And here we have an assessment. So,  that editor account posted a very specific victim on the forum, and, like, one or two days later,  the account March Machico also posted the exact same victim. We can theorise a bit about that.  You could perform some ACH, but, you know, that should be probably one of the affiliates of his,  and we could theorise about that. However, we also identified the March Machico Gmail account,  which was used to register the editor account on Raid forum. So, we have a very interesting link  with a null handle he was also using. So, yeah. Moving on.  August 2021, he publishes the first manual. It had six pages, and, as I said, it reflects much  of the actor's underground activities. Some initial insights that we provide are a few  underground services the actor mentioned on that manual. So, the first one is mass scan online  to discover targets. It has similar functions to show them, for instance. The host bulletproofing  provider, and crack which is basically a database of cracked passwords. So, whenever the actor got  a hashed password, he could just drop that into the service to see if the actors had that  cracked it into the database. The first manual also included a set of tools delivered together  with the manual. On that, I mean, there's a few tools. I can explain those tools later for whoever  is interested. I wasn't planning to detail those, but just so everyone is aware. So, the manual  basically said things about gaining access, how to gain access to companies, escalating privilege,  performing lateral movement, and identification of good targets to lock within the network.  There was no details about data exfiltration or extortion tactics on those manuals,  and I will provide a more summarized overview once we also cover the second manual. So,  on the next slides, we will get into it and get more details of the manuals together, I would say.  Moving on to the timeline. We are now in November 2021.  And the actor posted a comment on XSS saying that he would retire from hands-on operations.  His account was voluntarily banned from the forum. However, he kept operating on the forum  under the fisheye handle, and there he disclosed an affiliation with AlphaV  after he was criticized in some aspects of their operation.  One interesting thing is that there was an updated version of the first manual.  This updated version was created about March 2022, and that included two, sorry,  five additional pages. So, the content included things like some comments about the war between  Russia and Ukraine, some information he got into cryptocurrency trading,  and he said some things about some public research made analyzing the first manual.  It also included a new quick tutorial exploiting Blue Keep to get access in vulnerable RDP machines.  The interesting link here is that he was using a custom tool. That tool was developed by the actor  Playbit, who is a reputable and well-known actor for developing, I would say, one-day  vulnerabilities, too. So, whenever, you know, a new vulnerability is disclosed, the actor  kind of develops the tools and starts selling them on the ground. He was a lot well-versed  with operational system vulnerabilities. So, Blue Keep was one of his targets.  On that manual, on the last additional page, he also made some appraisals to a few  actors, which is interesting. They collaborated somehow to the content included on those manuals.  So, you can see, like, TMT, Lalarto, which is a reference to Wazawaka,  also supporting. Wazawaka probably was credited for this due to some collaborations with VMware  Breaching. There is also the actor Satyr and Marmalade Kinate.  Moving on on timeline. It is December 2022, and the actor starts offering the second manual for  $10,000. This manual was 24 pages and included additional methods to gain initial access,  privileges, and reach technologies. Some interesting thing that occurred in both manuals  is that the actor always included screenshots taken from real victims, and the presence of the  password is, like, everywhere. So, there's an interesting link. In May 2023, he leaked a  redacted version of that manual after some online conflicts he had with Prudapt. However, he also  got access to the redacted version, and, you know, we understood why he leaked that redacted version,  because there was a lot of information about the breached victims, and some of those with  high profile, like providers for big government entities and billion-dollar companies. So,  there were things like VPN credentials used to get access into that.  On the latest pages, it included two cryptocurrency addresses, one operated by  Bacelor, and another operated by Yashicheco. Here, I have some interesting crypto links that  I included. They are very basic. There is a lot of other correlated addresses, so this is just  a simplification. So, at the centre, there is the address included on the manual, and, you know,  I said, in December, he started selling the manuals. At the same period, we observed a lot of  transactions of about $10,000, which means, you know, those are potential buyers.  Most of the money he got from that address was sent to KuCoin exchange.  In September, like two months before he disclosed this address, national hazard agents,  no, his hacking group, they breached an organisation in Chile, and there was a handsome  note that included the address at the right side. There was a transaction flowing and, you know,  going to the address he operated linked to the manuals. There is another link from a real breach  with an address the actor shared within the manual. Another interesting link, so I mentioned  there was a good connection of him with Yashicheco, and there was some interactions with them in the  forum where he claimed to make a transfer to support Yashicheco with some medical care,  and that transaction was of about $80,500, and, analysing the transaction, we see that  that amount originated from KuCoin exchange, which, you know, is another good lead that he  operated an account at. So, those, you know, the first quarter of 2023 was some busy months  to Bastelord, so, at the time, he provided interviews to the record and Analyst One.  He claimed to return to the Lockbit as a service programme, and he announced a new retirement.  However, as the first time, he also kept operating with Hangstar operations, so you see a trend here,  right? So, let's take a look on the manuals. So, this is just an overview of the tools the actor  is using. So, we can see there the use of some of the tools that I mentioned above, like  Bazelon scan. However, checking the main techniques he used to gain initial action in those  organisations, we can say that most of that was related to the actor brute-forcing corporate VPNs  using Blue Keep and exploiting vulnerable corporate VPNs, you know, with vulnerabilities,  of course. Once he got access to an organisation, he spawns a software-perfect network scanner,  and from there, he starts looking for targets. What kind of targets those were? Many, of course,  most of the techniques within the manuals speak about escalating privileges to domain controllers.  So, you can see there's like the notepad vulnerability, but he also used a lot of  common red-team techniques, like a ASP-wrapped roasting. He also used the tools to identify  domain accounts, you know, through the authentication protocol, and used the legend  to conduct those brute-force account attacks.  His objectives here was always try, it's common, right? So, I need to get elevated credentials,  I need to dump any TDS database, I need to dump the process. This is kind of a common  procedure that we see in the text. Once he got access to those elevated credentials, he performs  a new scan with that. And then he finds the targets and tries to log them. There was a very  indirect reference. He didn't, he was not very explicit about it, but there was a section within  the manuals where he said, oh, how can you run a file in a remote machine, which is a reference to  how to deploy a hangs or to a remote machine, and he did that to PSZAC.  So, some things that I can provide looking at those manuals is that they leverages  effective and fast manuals. That's what he's always looking for. The most effective and  fast methods. One interesting thing is that actors look on these manuals as a method to  learn about hands-free operations, and we, as defenders, I mean, organisations should also  take a look at those manuals, and, you know, interpret them as a good strategy to fight  hangsware attacks. So, those, as Will Thomas said to me, those are templated attacks. I like that  definition. So, this could be some good guides for us to protect against it.  I will take a quick, I will do a quick mention to a section on the manuals where he speaks about  how they attack VMware technologies, which is the content from this slide. So, first, imagine  they got a domain account with elevated access. So, in many organisations, VMware re-centre,  which is a centralised interface that you can control virtualised machines, in most,  not most, in many organisations, VMware re-centre might be communicating with the domain,  so, in that case, the actor will try to use those credentials, log into VMware re-centre,  and verify if VMware ESX, which is the hypervisor where the virtual disks are,  is also connected to the domain. If that's not the case, what the actor does, so this is the idea for  the slides, he created a ESX admins global group and inserts an account on that group. He accesses  VMware re-centre. Remember, it's not linked, VMware re-centre, actually, ESX is not linked to the  domain, so he forces that connection to the domain. So now he can use that account,  a link with the ESX admins group, to log into VMware ESX, and from that, he now has an option  to change the VMware ESX root account password. This allows him to log into VMware ESX via SSH,  and from that, he can control the virtual disk as he wishes. This is interesting. Those are  template attacks, but, however, they're still effective, and you can still learn some interesting  techniques from that. I say that because I have seen only like two or three reports mentioning  these techniques by Hanksware operators, and there was a nice report from Sophos, if I'm not wrong,  where they mentioned the Akira, a Hanksware group, also used a similar technique.  However, these open-source reports usually didn't provide further context  on why the actors did that, so, you know, you can have some general idea of it.  We are on the last stages of our timeline. So, what do you got now? That is possibly,  and I emphasise possibly, a personal operating account with the Brat's Lab username.  That account was also present on the Ramp forums, Hensel forums, and XSS. There are some good leads  that this account might be operated by Bicelor, such as he posted a screenshot from the Fisheye  web comics, which the guy's a fan, there are arts to the manuals, you know.  In December, he posted a screenshot of the ALFV Taino during that disruption operation as a proof  that he still got access to that, that it was still working. He posted a lot of comments  to researchers indicating and giving hints that he could be Bicelor. However,  seeing that occurring, that account posted a comment saying, you're saying I'm not Bicelor.  And we have a bonus. So, we are getting to the end of the presentation, and just last month,  a new persona arrived on the forum using the Mason handle. That account offered a third version of  the manual. The actor Mason claimed affiliation with Bicelor. He didn't say he was Bicelor.  And the content that I can anticipate in providing you here for this new manual is that it is heavily  focused in identifying targets. I mean, using, like, corporate email addresses,  linking that with potential targets, identifying VPN corporate portals, link it with, you know,  the domains from that email addresses, things like that. And he's probably also using some  underground tools to conduct brute force count attacks. So, this is what this new manual is  about. Okay? And, you know, I can always provide further context. We have plenty of additional  details on almost every slide. So, whoever is interested, just reach out. Thank you.