{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=09dzW_k4j60",
  "title": "Xakep, Repa, Probiv, Spy | SLEUTHCON 2024",
  "description": "May 24, Sleuthcon 2024 in Arlington, VA\nPresented by Will Thomas\n\nWill Thomas is a Cyber Threat Intelligence Researcher and Threat Hunter from Equinix, sharing his lessons learned from studying the unique dynamics between the Russian government and the underground world of Russian speakers.\n\nTune into this talk to learn about the intricate relationship of cybercriminals and state intelligence services, and Russia\u2019s position as a hub for cybercrime campaigns. The combination of the low-income failing economy of Russia and their seemingly permissive stance on such activity, makes cybercrime a promising path for many.\n\nWill provides a comprehensive exploration of Russia\u2019s cybercrime ecosystem, unspoken agreements between criminals and the state, and the case studies that highlight the complexities of this intersection, and what implications it has on global cybersecurity. Through giving this talk he hopes to be able to help analysts and cybersecurity professionals to think deeper about intrusions, mitigate biases, and reshape the way we make connections.\n\nTimestamps:\n0:00 Introduction/about\n00:47 Aim of the talk\n01:22 Russia's long relationship with cybercrime\n04:06 Cybercrime and Russia intelligence services\n08:13 Case study (FSB and Andromeda Botnet)\n09:06 FSB and The DaVinci Group\n11:14 SVR and Infostealer Malware\n12:19 SVR's vs. OSTs\n14:03 GRU's Cybercrime Botnet/Crimeware/Forums\n17:45 Cybercriminals targeting Ukraine\n18:24 Current ransom war\n18:48 Russian arrests \n20:41 Conclusions\n21:55 Further reading",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCqNH7RRDYNXmrcf_ldl_miQ",
  "duration": 1349,
  "channel": "SLEUTHCON",
  "uploader": "SLEUTHCON",
  "upload_date": "20240827"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 I'm super glad to be here, thanks to John, thanks to the organizers for bringing me over  and this is a conference I've always wanted to attend and very glad to be here as a speaker.  So I'm here to talk about a little bit of the connections between the cybercrime underground  and the Russian intelligence services.  Something a topic I'm sure everyone's kind of thought about and I kind of took a bit  of a deep dive and shared my thoughts on it.  So the title of the talk is SACA, REPA, probe of spy and breaking that down it's the hacker  reputation, look up services and spy services as well.  So thinking of the GRU, FSB and SVR, the traditional ones there.  So the aim of my talk is to basically help you think more deeply about the intrusions  that you analyze and basically help you make connections between the types of things when  you're looking at basically makes you want to think more deeply about the types of things  you're investigating and try to mitigate some of your biases and try and basically rethink  the ways that you've been doing things as well.  So why does most cybercrime come from Russia, you may ask?  So Russia actually has one of the largest and oldest cybercrime undergrounds if you  compare it to any other country and the interesting thing is they actually have a community of  very technical people and with a brutally low salary and a sort of a slowing and aging  economy which is becoming ever increasingly isolationist, people tend to turn to making  monies in different ways.  So that's definitely one of the main reasons but we're going to dive into some more as  well.  The other interesting thing is the fact of this old unwritten rule of cybercrime.  The fact that you can analyze pieces of malware and you can see them performing system language  checks, you know, for example, the R-Evil ransomware group, you can actually see which  countries the malware doesn't execute in and it's a pretty telltale sign of the fact they  have these kind of tacit agreements between them and the country, the law enforcement  and officials of the country they reside in.  So the other interesting thing is the fact that Russia essentially permits cybercrime.  Any time there's any opportunity for countries to come together and collaborate on tackling  these issues, which do actually impact Russia themselves, they basically always turn their  back on the rest of the world.  They had the Budapest Convention many years ago and they basically decided to not take  part in that because it violates their national sovereignty, which is kind of depressing if  you can imagine you have all the international law enforcement agencies contacting Russian  law enforcement asking for details and information and they're never allowed to really provide  anything.  And if you actually think of some examples of if people actually go out of their way  and risk their necks to share information, such as CEOs of some cybersecurity companies,  they do actually get arrested and thrown in jail for even trying.  So definitely shutting that down.  Another example of how Russia permits cybercrime, an interesting study that the University of  Oxford did in the UK, they actually analysed five different types of cybercrime and they  put it into categories of which is the most common and which is the most prevalent from  each country.  And to nobody's surprise, Russia is number one, as they are in many of these types of  research studies and things.  But this is a first time, a world first cybercrime index that Oxford put together.  I mean, interestingly, Ukraine's second as well, probably because they're so close to  Russia.  But yeah, I'm sure the Ukrainian cyber police are starting to chip away at that statistic  as well.  You can also see by the fact there's so many Russians on the FBI Cyber Most Wanted list  that there is kind of a habit of the fact that there's no denying that Russia is the  global hub or the epicentre of cybercrime.  And I'm sure there's many cybercrime groups there that you recognise and have investigated  yourselves.  One group that I was pretty intimate with several years ago was Zareepul.  I did an episode of a little podcast known as Darknet Diaries on that one.  But it's definitely fascinating to then examine the links between these organised cybercrime  groups making millions of dollars and the Russian intelligence services themselves.  So as we actually explore how deep cybercrime runs in Russia, you can even see the fact  that you have darknet market, darknet drug markets and credential markets and things  running advertising billboards in the streets of Moscow.  So it's pretty, you know, a cyberpunk type of dystopian reality when you see cybercriminals  basically running your city advertising spaces.  And then there's also the famous Evil Corp videos that the NCA shared before of Lamborghinis  and things drifting around Moscow.  It just goes to show they're laughing in everyone's faces about how powerful and how untouchable  they are, unfortunately.  And then, of course, you have our evil, which was sharing pics on Instagram of them staying  on luxury hotels and things, living it up in a very extravagant lifestyle.  But the other thing I really wanted to touch on today, which I think I've not really seen  much research else onto it, is the fact that each Russian intelligence service interacts  with the cybercrime underground differently from each other.  So the GRU, the sort of military intelligence, interacts differently from the other two by  a lot of the time they like to use crimeware for their own operations.  They're not so much recruiting cybercriminals as much as they are taking and buying malware  and buying other types of services and things from the cybercrime underground and leveraging  it for their own campaigns.  And the other interesting thing is because of, you know, obviously you have plausible  deniability.  If you're an intrusion analyst and you detect some sort of run of the mill cybercrime piece  of malware on an endpoint, you may dismiss it as a nation state to detect.  So obviously it makes sense for them to try and muddy the waters and make attribution  harder.  But I mean, as a community, as everyone in this room, I'm sure we can see through some  of that ourselves as well.  The FSB is an interesting one as well because they interact with the cybercrime underground  differently from the GRU.  They tend to kind of recruit cybercriminals and work with them on joint operations into  some regard.  They basically are fully aware of which cybercriminals are active and figure out how they can leverage  their capabilities and infrastructure for their own goals.  If you analyze and think about some of the past campaigns of the Yahoo hack several years  ago, you know, there was a case where access and things were gained potentially by cybercriminals  and then offered to the intelligence services and then basically in return for, you know,  they can continue their campaigns, basically, you know, the old tap on the shoulder.  And the other interesting thing is the fact that the FSB is the agency that is responsible  for sort of internal affairs and state security.  So they are the ones who are most likely to be aware of which cybercriminals are active  and which are the ones they should take down.  If you think, cast your minds back to the Areval arrest in January 2022.  And the last agency that I wanted to bring up was the Foreign Intelligence Agency, the  SVR.  And they are probably largely considered one of the most advanced, sophisticated groups  that breach all sorts of important technology companies.  But they actually not so much interact with cybercriminals directly, but they kind of  are more patient and they observe what's going on in the cyber underground and figure out  how they can leverage those things to their own advantage without directly interacting  with it themselves.  So a case study is back in, I believe it was September 2022, they had TURLA, one of the  infamous FSB Centre 16 groups, they have been active for several decades at this point.  They were a very interesting research produced by Mandiant was the fact that they were able  to detect USB malware infections inside certain organisations and basically registered the  domains, the expired C2 domains and regained access that way by tracking these cybercriminal  malware botnets.  Which is pretty concerning if you consider how prolific and how widespread these malware  botnets are.  This would basically happen at any time.  You may consider generic 10-year-old USB malware not really much of a threat, but if you're  a high priority, high value target, basically you can't discount anything as being a threat.  Another interesting thing is, this is where the probiv side of it comes into, is the fact  that Russia is a pretty corrupt society and the fact that if you have the money, you can  pay someone who knows someone who knows someone to get you access to some sort of information.  That can be mobile carrier information, that can be telegram account ownership, that can  be depending on the status of their citizenship or passport or what countries they're allowed  to go to and from.  I basically came across this by reading some of the Ukraine advisories that they produce  on their website, and they actually specifically called out the name of a company called the  Da Vinci Group, because they normally use the naming generation, it's like UAC, whatever,  but this time they decided to call out a company by name, and listed some of the IOCs and things,  and I was like, okay, this is a little bit more interesting, a little bit unusual for  what they normally do.  So I decided to basically look up, go to their website, and go on to the forums and  things, and I could see all sorts of services that they offered.  They even had an Instagram account and a Facebook account, and they had models where you're  holding up a computer with their logo on it, it's kind of ridiculous.  I did do a blog on it as well if you want to read that on my website, but, yes, it's  very interesting.  And they also, on their website, they also list pricing ranges of how much something  can cost to gain access to a target of yours information, so, with basically based on the  types of access that they had, the types of services and access and data they could provide,  you pretty much can't do that unless you are some sort of law enforcement or have connections  to the deep agencies of the state.  So that's pretty much, you know, I believe and agree with Ukraine's assessment that they  are connected to the FSB.  Another interesting case study that when I came up when I was researching this talk came  up was the fact that the SVR, again, I believe this was based on Mandiant Intrusion Analysis,  was the fact that they had used a basically Infostealer cookie that had been stolen for  a session replay attack to gain access to a Microsoft 365 environment, and they found  out that it was stolen by an Infostealer on the endpoint, and the fact that that Infostealer  had arrived by a sort of cracked software, you know, there's all sorts of organisations  that try hard to ban software, but there is, you know, one country in particular that has  a pretty bad where's problem, which I can pretty much guess who was the victim in here.  But they, you know, the fact that this is very interesting, because the fact that this  means that the SVR is likely monitoring the credential marketplaces that sell, buy and  sell Infostealer stolen data.  They're slowly, silently sitting there, waiting for a high-value target to appear, and then  buy the access and gain access that way.  Definitely some sort of notable TTP to realise, and, again, you can't discount these generic  threats, because, if you're a high-value target, someone is going to be looking for you.  The other side of it is the fact that the SVR likes to use all sorts of commercial offensive  security tools, namely cracked ones that have been spread and shared around on forums and  telegram channels, things like breach forums and raid forums, and all sorts of cracked  key gen Russian-speaking telegram channels, which, if you try hard enough, you can finally  get into, but, again, it's an interesting strategy of theirs to leverage some of the  stolen tools and tactics and things that they see cybercriminals doing without directly  engaging them and working with them themselves.  Another interesting thing, this was kind of a thing that stuck out to me from reading  some of the research that CISR and FBI put out, basically saying that, a few years ago,  they said the interesting thing about the SVR was they were using false identities and  cryptocurrency accounts to basically register VPSs, and they used a network of VPS resellers  to buy some of this stuff.  It's kind of like decent OPSEC-level stuff to register infrastructure, but the thing  that was really striking to me was the fact that this is exactly what cybercriminals do.  You may have seen some recent research about Chinese APT groups compromising IoT devices  and things and building botnets on those.  We have seen groups like APT28 doing that, but the interesting thing here was the fact  that they basically copied the cybercriminal infrastructure set-up service step by step,  and that kind of, to me, made me think that they were potentially someone on that team  has very well, you know, very well strong experience of how cybercriminals do things  and potentially was a cybercriminal in a past life.  Coming back to the GRU, they basically had a lot of interactions with cybercriminals,  as we can tell, as we know, over the years.  The other interesting thing was they basically co-opted a cybercriminal botnet to repurpose  it for their own campaign, so they again had been monitoring how cybercriminals were setting  up infrastructure, compromising devices, and allowing that crime to go on, and then eventually  realised that, okay, we could use this for our own campaigns ourselves, so, again, it's  another reason, another reason for them to allow cybercriminals to do their thing and  permit it from taking place from their country is because it just comes in handy for whenever  they want to run the campaign themselves.  And how could I talk about Russian intel and cybercrime and things about bringing up Samworm  with the man himself in the room?  They use all sorts of crimeware and things, Black Energy, Petya ransomware, which they  turned into a wiper.  Dark crystal rat is something they've more recently done in the last couple of years.  Again, it's just one of these commodity crimeware tools that, you know, if you're a telecom  company in Eastern Europe, if you see these kinds of things hitting your inbox, you may  not realise the sort of real danger and threat that you're actually facing and could have  lulled into maybe a false sense of security because you think it's pretty much commodity  spam which has dismissed that without realising that, no, it's the GRU, they want to get in  and blow up your whole network.  And then there's also recently Google Tag put out a report of the Bradman-Steeler malware,  so again another crimeware to monitor for potential GRU activity, potentially.  Another interesting fact is the fact that at the start of the Ukraine war, probably  even a couple of weeks before the Ukraine war kicked off in January 2022, a number of  Ukrainian government entities were hit by sort of defacement attacks and a couple of  wipers, I believe, and then some of the data that was stolen previously ended up on raid  forums, which is a sort of Western-speaking cybercrime forum, which I'm sure most people  in the room are aware of, but they decided to create this persona called Free Civilian  and start leaking that stuff on these Western-speaking cybercrime forums, probably with the aim of  us researchers in the room picking it up and writing about it and publishing it and things,  and it's kind of like an interesting information operation in that regard of actually trying  to scare a population into thinking government data has been stolen and leaked.  The other interesting thing was an investigation by Brian Krebs, which was on a core member  of the Mazzafacca forum, which was a top-tier cybercrime forum with all sorts of threat  actors that you're probably aware of and cybercrime groups that you're probably tracking on a  day-to-day basis, things like ransomware gangs and banking Trojan-turned-Lotus campaigns  as well.  He was actually a core member of that forum, but a bit of sleuthing by Krebs found that  on his Facebook, on his V-contact page, there's a picture of him in some sort of GRU Spetsnaz  uniform himself.  So again, it goes to show operators have potentially other lives or past lives as well.  The other interesting thing is the fact that cybercriminals from Ukraine, cybercriminals  can target Ukraine basically on behalf of Russia, but some interesting research was  found that mouse-bound campaigns traditionally used for ransomware precursor operations,  they found that they had been basically stopped all the external targeting of global attacks  and sort of European and Western and USA-based companies to actually focus everything on  Ukraine.  And this kind of goes to show that cybercriminals are pretty much on call in some regards to  supporting their government.  And again, sort of the old tap on the shoulder.  Yes, so the current ransom war, I thought I'd just chuck in a slide of, you know, we've  had quite a few talks and things, the great information things shared by people today  about ransomware.  But the fact is, you know, there's currently an ongoing ransom war and we are the targets  of it.  And basically, this stuff is going on and being permitted with only, you know, a handful  of disruptions, which I'll talk about in a minute as well.  So when Russia actually does make arrests and does stop some of these ransomware gangs,  it's kind of an interesting way that they do it.  It's never straightforward with them, there's always some sort of signalling going on by  the fact that at the very same day that the FSB arrested Areval, that's when they performed  the sort of wiper defacement attack against Ukraine.  So it's kind of a, you know, why did they decide to do it that day at the same time  as they launched some sort of operational attack as well.  Again, it's, you know, plausible deniability, it's, you know, distracting and only targeting  certain audiences and things.  It's all an image thing with them, really, at the end of the day.  And a perspective thing.  Again, you know, other sorts of arrests they make.  You know, not long ago, earlier this year, there was a malware developer on Telegram  who was selling, you know, binaries and loaders and whatever, steal a source code or something  on Telegram, and he was randomly arrested by the FSB.  Why would they decide to focus on this one person and publicise the fact that they arrested  this one guy?  It's kind of interesting to think about, I mean, we could all theorise it, but at the  end of the day, sometimes it's a bit of a mystery.  So a couple of the other types of arrests and things actually seems to be they were  potentially trying to crack, trying to make it appear that they were cracking down on  corruption by arresting some sort of senior officer.  Again, at the end of the day, it's a bit of a power struggle going on in Russia all the  time, and any time one politician gets a bit too powerful or doesn't seem as closely aligned  to the main regime, they can always, you know, create some sort of charge to, you know, to  take that, remove that opposition out.  So several conclusions at the end of the day.  At the end of the day, it comes down to the fact that cybercrime is very intertwined with  Russian intelligence services, and you should always keep that in the back of your mind,  I think, when you're investigating some of this stuff, especially if you work for a high  value target, you know, if you happen to know that your organisation is potentially within  the targeting scope of an intelligence service, you also still need to be acutely aware of  the fact that cybercrime campaigns can be turned into some sort of espionage campaign  at any moment in some regards.  So this is, you know, it harks back to the first talk of the day when Selina said that  we should be all thinking of APT as, you know, cybercrime and, you know, state at the same  time, really.  Yeah, again, you know, cybercriminals are on call, and, you know, there's always a huge  financial incentive for cybercriminals to run these campaigns, they're basically never  going to be arrested from it, and it causes damage to the West as well.  So it's going to continue, and until we see some sort of major change and major disruption,  the cycle's always going to continue, and it's the infinite game at the end of the day.  Some further reading.  So we've got some recorded futures dark covenant paper and things by the Atlantic Council,  I highly recommend everyone having a look through these, I definitely enjoyed them myself  when I was researching this talk, and, yeah, some great considerations to make that whenever  you're making an assessment, you should be including some of this stuff as well.  Thank you very much!