{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZY3JlAj6Gwo",
  "title": "17. \"... continuation of politics by other means\" - TI During Crisis Events by Kamil Bojarski",
  "description": "\"... continuation of politics by other means.\" - Threat Intelligence During Crisis Events\n\n\"CEO just saw on CNN that cyberwar is coming as this vuln makes Cyber Pearl Harbor inevitable and SHE. NEEDS. TO. KNOW. NOW.\" For threat intelligence analysts this scenario might sound all too familiar. Let's see how volatile world events affect security exposure, and cut through the FUD.\n\nThreat intelligence is the field of information security especially exposed to and intertwined with major world events such as hostilities between nations or geopolitical tensions. Hence, it should not be surprising that decisionmakers reach to their intelligence teams for analysis regarding headline grabbing events. However, one's significance in terms of global impact of the events is often severely overestimated leading to knee-jerk overreaction in terms of security posture. This is further compounded by the fact that visibility into threat actors' affiliation and intentions is limited most of the time.\n\nAim of the presentation is to provide guidance to analysts involved in informing stakeholders on impact of distant global events in terms of threats that might emerge to the company. By empirical analysis of cyber attacks that followed international incidents, we will look at what types of attacks were conducted, who were the victims and what was their relation to the actors involved in the event. In order to understand the context of how cyber operations are used during military operation, we will also take a brief look at the role of cyber in supporting kinetic operations and entities affected in the process. Following, we will discuss methodology of assessment of exposure resulting from different types of events such as armed conflicts, diplomatic tensions and personal grievances between company executives and foreign actors. Purpose is to help intelligence professionals with providing clear and cool-headed assessments, making sure that FUD is removed and leadership can focus on addressing the most relevant threats facing organisation.",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8wesSvHdlNXVZgSy_UU_Ug",
  "duration": 2366,
  "channel": "x33fcon",
  "uploader": "x33fcon",
  "upload_date": "20220829"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 Okay, thank you very much for all those who are here as this is the last conference, sorry  last presentation of the conference and I know those can be tough to attend, especially  after such intensive days as we have at ZIWCON, so on behalf of the organiser I guess thanks  a lot again.  So to cut to the point and not to have this drag over for an hour and a half or something  like this, let's get started on what we'll be talking about and who I am and why am I  talking about.  I'm a great supporter of the Inigo Montoya style of introduction, so just greeting, we  are there.  Something about myself, then establishing a link, the presentation we've heard were  mostly on the Red Team side, hence I'm quite happy about it because I would like to present  the Blue side of things that may be useful I hope also for the purposes of the adversary  emulation.  And in terms of managing expectations, I hope to alleviate threat intel analysts in terms  of how they approach and how they address the threats when something big happens in  the world, because sometimes I feel that they might get overburdened with what are  the expectations from management and how the support to the rest of the organisation can  look like.  So we will discuss some actual case studies, I mean it's of course impossible to prove  the negative, like the attack did not happen despite some political tension or geopolitical  relations, hence we will discuss attacks that can be clearly traced to those high profile  events.  But also we will take a look at how sometimes the analysts can clearly overreach with their  predictions and assessment and we will take a look at the strategic document of policy  in the Chinese Five Years Plan and how the analysts who are dealing with the Chinese  based threat actors approach it.  There will be also a short comment on how the Russian invasion of Ukraine changed the  threat landscape, but I will comment on that later.  And finally we will deal with conclusions and how to address properly those situations.  So first of all, who am I?  I'm working as a principal threat intelligence analyst at Quo Intelligence, so we deliver  tailored intelligence services and solutions to our customers.  As a principal analyst, I'm working directly with customers, gathering their intelligence  requirements, making sure that our products meet their expectations and also doing the  research activities.  I like to share my knowledge, hence sometimes I'm a teaching assistant for some cyber threat  intelligence course.  If you take the live online version, usually in the US time zone, I might be there.  And you can read my thoughts and my side work on the OSINT national security and threat  intelligence using my blog, counterintelligence.pl.  In my free time, I like flying stuff, I like aviation, I've got my own ADS-B station, so  if you use flight radar and look at what's going on in Poland, you might get flights  that are captured by my station.  I like flipping balisongs and also climbing, mostly bouldering, but that's also on B, so  I had to go with climbing.  And of course, feel free to connect if you have any questions after the presentation,  reach me on LinkedIn, Twitter or email, it's easy to find.  So when I saw that my presentation is last on the second day, I was like, you know, the  expectations are low, it's just so that I'm the only thing stopping you from going home,  so it might be meh-ish.  But actually, I think Dorota made quite a great decision, because the scenario I wanted  to present or to introduce the narrative is exactly that it's afternoon at Friday, like  Friday 4, 5pm, and it is, it's Friday 4 or 5pm, so in normal circumstances, you would  be preparing to head home.  And it's common cliche in the development circles that you should not push things into  production at Friday 4pm, because something will blow up.  And it's of course not the case, usually with security teams, I mean, if you have access  to EDR, and you might push some blocking rule that will crush the infrastructure, but otherwise,  that's not usually the case in our sector.  But what is the case is that either the incidents happens at the least convenient moment, or  at the worst event, the media picks up something and blows it, so that it gains visibility  for the, to the C-level personnel, and they have to, they usually, as we will talk about,  move to the intelligence team for support.  And the best example of this type of, let's say, bit of spreading fear, uncertainty, and  doubt is this cyber per harbour scenario, the huge destructive attack that will happen  and that will cause massive damage to infrastructure.  And it's something that C-level might be worried of, and not without a reason, because it comes  up again and again.  The top example here is actually from Poland, it says, Polish general, we expected a bit  of cyber, something like cyber per harbour, and he's talking about situation in Ukraine,  lower you've got Leon Panetta, ex-director of CIA, who was also talking about this, and  of course, a bunch of journalists who are on it.  So when things like this happen, when there is political tensions around the globe, when  there is event that's picked up by media, what does the management or the security,  head of security organisation does?  It can reach to the intelligence team, and can ask them to provide analysis, find out  what's going on, assess how it will affect our organisations, and what can happen is  that we end up in the danger zone.  Why?  Because while it's normal that intelligence team is in an advisory role, what threat intelligence  is, can be quite moody, let's say, quite mixed.  Like you might be familiar with the company Jane's, they are most known for their military  reference, Jane's fighting ships, but they also have threat intelligence service.  But their threat intelligence is around insurgency activity, military posture of countries, proliferation  of weapons of mass destruction, and so on.  So if you are a board intelligence analyst, and just applying to various LinkedIn jobs,  and you would apply to threat intelligence and Jane's, and you are cyber threat intelligence  analyst, they might be quite surprised at the job interview.  So on the other hand, we've got like our own, let's say, cyber threat intelligence  as here represented by the Sanskars 4578 cyber threat intelligence that teaches you how to  analyse the tradecraft of the adversary.  So is the one threat intelligence more correct than another?  Of course not, but the issue comes when there is a mix of expectation from those who enacted  and support the threat intelligence service.  So it might be quite expected that the expectation will be that not only the intelligence team  will have expertise in technical analysis of threats, and in following the infrastructure,  following the malware implants, but also when something, some, let's say, adversarial actions  happens, they will analyse the geopolitical landscape, provide the sound analysis of what  will happen, whether we will be cyber attacked, and so on, and so on.  So for example, at my company, at Core Intelligence, we have folks from both the cyber side and  the geopolitical side, and we work together, but we are a specialised outlet.  And of course, this might not happen if you are in the organisation, you might be the  only threat intelligence analyst, you might be a threat intelligence that's working with  the incident response team, for example, as support.  So how to approach this, what to do?  So first of all, we need to establish some assumptions and deal with the reality.  Regardless if you are a small company, or if you are a big company like Amazon or Microsoft,  your field of view will be limited, and especially in terms of the analysis that extends beyond  the cyber landscape.  So this, combined with the fact that you will kind of instinctively think that the, or certainly  the management can think that the early world event affects you, can lead to biases on your  side.  So you will start to create the intelligence requirements, and intelligence collections  plan and so on, based around the fact that you're like at the centre of these activities,  even if they do not happen.  So you might be familiar with the Kevin Bacon number, which is the relationship between  Kevin Bacon and other actors, counted by how many there are links of separation in terms  of movies.  So for example, Michael Emerson's Kevin Bacon number is two, because he acted in movies  with these folks from movie Loverboy, and they acted with Kevin Bacon.  And in the same example, of course, you can draw an arbitrary relationship between your  organisation and basically any event in the world.  And this is something that we should strive to avoid.  Because what can happen, and what can exacerbate this problem, is that when a high profile  event happens, like conflict starts, like there is a tension between the country where  your company is located, and some other country that is active in terms of cyberspace operation,  you may want to move your collection, so what you're focusing on as an intelligence  team, to things focused on this event.  And in the first look, it looks perfectly reasonable, because you want to find something  about this event, you want to analyse the activity, you want to compare it with your  infrastructure and so on.  But ultimately, this may lead to having a tunnel vision on what is happening.  So, of course, if you, for example, take the invasion of Ukraine as an example, and  you will start looking for malware related to that, you will read the reports from Microsoft  and from other companies, from Ukraine said on what's going on, you will find something.  And by extending this threat relationship further and further, you might find a link  that's not necessarily direct or really feasible to your threat landscape.  So first question to ask is, do you have any direct visibility?  So when we are talking about the analysis of those far-reaching events, do we not just  base on the visibility provided by others, and what are the biases related from it?  And if we talk about the highly volatile situation, do we have this direct relationship, which  we'll be talking about in our examples, or do we just have the impression of the relationship?  So let's go with the first case study that shows a kind of perfect storm of events that  lead to retaliatory attack.  So there was a certain gentleman in the United States.  I think he passed away, so he was not available for comment.  But he thought that the best way to deter Iran from pursuing their nuclear program was  to detonate a nuclear warhead in the desert in Iran, and threaten the further nuclear  strike if the program will not subsidize.  So after this, his end, his casino enterprise, suffered a wiper attack.  It was some visual basic wiper, nothing like super special, but it did a job, and cost  of recovery was, as we see, $40 million.  And we have attribution from the U.S. intelligence, so we have confirmation that Iran-linked groups  were responsible.  And what happened behind the scenes?  So the quotes were from Sheldon Adelson, who was the CEO of Las Vegas Sunscorp.  So this push towards retaliation and this adversarial relationship happened just at  the top level.  So like straight, the first officer, the first representative of the company, made this kind  of implication of threat.  And of course, from the perspective of the Iranian groups, that was treated as an invitation  to this kind of U.S. policy.  And why I'm saying this was kind of a perfect storm?  Because in case of the Iran structure of cyber operation, there are many subtleties and complexities.  So for example, Iran bases heavily on the independent contractor groups that are essentially  competing for the government contracts, if we can call it like that.  The groups that have effects, that can provide effects, are getting paid and are getting  further contracts.  The competition makes the operations more aggressive, and so on.  And Iran has a history of using the retaliatory attacks.  So for example, in 2012, we had a so-called Operation Ababil, which was DDoS against multiple  U.S. banks, like JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America.  And this was caused by the...  This was a response, as communicated by the groups responsible, to the inflammatory movie  published by the radical fundamentalist Christian preacher from the United States.  We also had deployment of Shamoon against the Saudi Aramco, which was highly destructive  and was communicated as a retaliation to the acts of Saudi Arabia in the region.  And if we look at the work of those groups, and then compare and contrast it with the,  let's say, more pure espionage operation, like those various kittens, or APT 33, 34,  45, that are working, we will see that clearly Iran goes two ways, in those terms.  And the destructive attacks can be highly likely, given these retaliatory relationships.  So this is actually what happened in the Saudi Aramco case.  The Saudi Aramco tried to deny that it had much effect, but the journalist linked this  photo that after the attack, this flotilla of tankers, of trucks, could not get the oil  from the refinery, due to the damage to the systems.  And another case study was the Guardians of Peace attack against Sony Pictures Entertainment.  And what happened there was the...  This was a response to the movie, the interview.  If you haven't seen it, then apologies, but there will be spoilers on how it ends.  Then you can leave or watch the presentation later online.  But the movie was about two guys, TV reporters, who were acting on behalf of CIA, and went  to North Korea to assassinate Kim Jong-un.  And it caused quite a stir, and caused diplomatic tension and threats from North Korea, not  only against Sony directly, but also against the theaters, so that there will be terrorist  acts ahead.  And resulted in an attack that was not only just a hack, they leaked a lot of stuff from  Sony Pictures Entertainment, but also disrupted the IT infrastructure, used the employees  who turned on their PCs in the morning, so this red skeleton that they've been hacked  by the Guardians of Peace group, and there was threat to take down the interview before  the certain timeline, or else, and so on.  So let's take a look on how it relates to what could have happened in the background.  So when we look at the North Korea state priorities, this is complied from the public US intelligence  reporting and think tank reporting, is that major priorities are development of nuclear  capabilities, ensuring the role of Kim family, and having this dominant position in Korean  peninsula.  And especially if we look at the second point, ensuring the role of Kim family, how this  can be threatened, and what could happen.  So what happened in the movie, and now there is a spoiler ahead, is that at the end of  the movie, Kim Jong-un is traveling in a helicopter, and he gets shot down by a tank, nonetheless,  and he dies in a fireball.  So why this is so significant, because, I mean, this is not the perfect picture, because  this is actually the CIA protecting the then Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai, but I  could not find a picture of CIA killing a foreign leader, but the point is that being  involved in foreign policy matters, meddling in politics of other states, is exactly what  CIA does.  So what, from the perspective of North Korea, what happened is that the movie was the depiction  of what could have happened, of what will happen, like the declaration of threat from  the United States.  Now it is debatable what happened in terms of the tasking, so whether it were overzealous  elements of the North Korean intelligence and cyber groups, or was this order from the  top.  But this relationship of kicking the hornet's nest in terms of digging right into what makes  North Korea the state it is, so the rule of the Kim family, was what caused this attack  against the private company, threats of violence, response from the president of the United  States who said that Sony made a mistake because they should not have taken down the picture,  because it's essentially, for instance, censoring US artists and so on, and all this mess.  So next let's move on to WADA, so World Anti-Doping Agency, and the events that surrounded the  2018 Winter Olympic Games.  So as we know now, Russia is quite proficient in providing illegal support to their athletes.  They were running a doping program that's run by the FSB and SVR, and the officers were  involved in faking the urine tests, opening the containers and so on.  So there were two distinct operations that happened in relation to that, in response  to that.  First was leaking of documentations from WADA, World Anti-Doping Agency, and it was openly  advertised by the group as the Fancy Beer Hack Team, so Fancy Beer was the moniker used  by the CrowdStrike to describe the activities of Russian GRU, well, one of the teams, and  they said, yeah, this is us.  It was also almost like in the face.  But what happened then during Olympics was there was another attack, and here, as we  were talking about the direct relationship and direct victims here, it's not so easy.  So the attack was against the Olympic infrastructure that was involved in VP access for journalists,  in ticket distribution, so if you wanted to buy a ticket during Olympics, like last minute,  you could not do it.  And the collateral victim was not the, well, collateral direct victim was the Olympic Games,  but the collateral victim was IT provider, as here we can see in the indictment issue,  the United States Department of Justice, the IT Company 1, whose infrastructure has been  breached, and because they were IT providers to the Olympic Games, it was essentially a  supply chain attack.  And they were used to disrupt the Olympics, they had the infrastructure, and of course,  it does not matter if it would be IT Company 1 or IT Company 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or any other.  The company that was here responsible for the Olympic Games got tackled because of the  relationship.  And if we compare those two, we can see quite a shift in the tactics, procedures, because  while the fanciful hacking team and their leaks were openly advertised, like this is  us, in case of the direct attack against the Olympic Games, the malware attribution  was heavily thwarted, or there were attempts to thwart the attribution, using false flags,  trying to make malware look like the work of the Lazarus team, and so on.  Also, the Russian government officially denied responsibility here, as we are reading the  indictment by the Department of Justice, those actions were actually attributed to the actors  of the Russian state.  So as we see, when there was a hack and leak operation, it was quite open, but once we  moved to this destructive operation that could be considered in various different terms,  for just a cyber sabotage to perhaps an armed attack, depending on how you look at it, the  level of admittance, let's say, dropped significantly, but the effect of those did not.  So those were the case studies that showed how attacks can happen as a result of geopolitical  tension, but what if analysts are a bit overzealous in terms of analysis, and sometimes there  are many roadblocks for the analysis.  So China's policy is, well, not based, but there is a major document of China policy,  the Five-Year Plan, which shapes the economic and national priorities for the next five years.  And especially interesting for analysts and prominent seems the 13th plan, the 13th Five-Year Plan,  which was supposed to cover the period between 2016 and 2020, and it included, for example,  the Made in China policy, so the move to manufacturing of components in China and  getting the intellectual property on site, innovation, strengthening the industrial base,  and so on.  And if we take a look at the reporting from that period, we can see that everything is  Five-Year Plan.  Like we have at the top, the report from Mandiant, lower is the report about the action, this  is the report that's known in the cyber threat intelligence community report, Operation SMN,  so it was a combined effort of Microsoft, Cisco, FireEden, multiple companies that made  the effort to describe this action protector.  And here is, on the right side, is the document from the United States government Department  of Health and Human Services, which also describes China threats, and you can see  here all over the references to the Five-Year Plan in terms of the threat actor relationship.  So I took a look at what actually is in this Five-Year Plan, actually that's a lie because  I knew what was there because I was dealing with the China-related threat actors, but  for the narrative sake, let's say we take a look now.  And if we, those are public documents, no need for some advanced collection, so if we  take a look, we can see that the technologies in China are aerospace equipment, so maybe  something related to jet fighters, to flight transport, marine engineering, so naval, ship  building, rail transit, manufacturing tools, CNC, so computer numerical control, machine  tooling used in production and precise manufacturing, robotics, so common now in production  lines, agriculture, medical equipment, chemical machinery, next-generation information and  technically biotech industry, that's nice for them, but that's not the end.  The special information processing and so on, advanced materials and new energy vehicles,  so quite an extensive list.  And if we look at the other threat actors that were supposedly active before this Five-Year  Plan, like here described by CrowdStrike, the Puter Panda activity, they targeted aerospace  industry, APT1, both of these groups related to People's Liberation Army activity, they  targeted IT, transportation, agriculture, or if we look at the VNET in its various groups  that targeted chemical companies, high-tech companies, machine equipment companies, we  may ask, like, what's going on?  Did those groups miss the memo that there will be a next 2016 plan that they should  refer to in terms of their targeting?  We can also, like, scroll back and if you now take a look at the Department of Human  and Health Services presentation, you can see that they also actually describe the activity  that took place between 2006 and 2014 and is also somehow related to this 2016 Five-Year  Plan.  So, what happened in the end, from my perspective, is that because this plan was so extensive  and covered so many different industries, there was no relation, it had no significant  diagnostic value.  What happened is that because of those threat actors' activities were geared and pointed  towards supporting China's national priorities or any country's priorities, like defence,  strengthening industrial base, and so on, the use of Five-Year Plan in reporting was  not all about correct, let's say, methodologically, was not always about using additional factor  for analysis, but rather a case of confirmation bias where the analysts saw the Five-Year  Plan, like pick and choose, if it fits to the activity, and then it was used as a supporting  argument, as something like supporting their thesis.  And if we look actually at the 14th Five-Year Plan, we can see that those priorities that  we saw earlier, especially strengthening technological advantage, developing national security, boosting  domestic housing demands, also manufacturing and having materials to create them, are still present.  So, we cannot take out of context like one single piece of document, and there are multiple  for China, and take it, just try to apply it, but instead we have to, fortunately or  unfortunately, take a look at bigger picture and make sure that when we are taking in evidence,  they are not here to support our cause, but actually to make check on us, if the causes  are in fact correct.  So now comes the moment that the presentation was supposed to look a bit different, because  when I was submitting the call for papers in March, the Russian invasion of Ukraine  was still, let's say, quite in its early phase.  So, I kind of thought that by the time the Zivcon will happen, we will be in a bit different  place, but it's still a stalemate, so I would like not to comment on its consequences yet,  but we can see on what happened already and what did not happen.  So, definitely what did not happen, and was to kind of, let's say in air quotes, a bit  of disappointment of many cyber threat analysts, is that there was no expected massive cyber  armageddon, let's say, massive destructive attacks, and for various reasons.  So, we had these various activities, groups like Killnet or Legion attacking DDoSing targets  in Europe and in Ukraine.  We had the DDoS attacks against Latvia and Lithuania after the announcement of sanctions  against rail transport in Kaliningrad, and we had the activity in, so we're doing very  early phase, like days that followed the invasion and days before.  We had an attack against the satellite communication provider, which crippled, like, internet access.  We had the DDoS attacks against banks and government sites, which, you know, when the  country is getting invaded, it's natural that citizens look for them to secure their belongings,  and Microsoft described the activity in the report, and they mentioned that wipers were  being deployed and so on, but because of the preparation of Ukrainian computer emergency  teams and other factors, they were not as successful.  But what, again, what did not happen, and what many companies, and this was the inspiration  for this presentation, is that many companies were kind of, they were upset, to say least,  I mean, because they thought, like, this was a major geopolitical event, so this will,  this will, like, fall back on us.  But of course, here we are going back to this dilemma of the Kevin Bacon effect and main  character syndrome.  So it's natural for the, for such situation to make you overestimate your flat landscape,  but it is the job of the analysts to make sure that this overestimation does not happen.  So here we can break down the cases of what was the, breaking down case studies into what  were the motivations, method, and relationship.  So basically, if we look at the methods of attack in case of this, where we saw this  relationship, there were either destructive or hack-and-leak activities.  So the response to the geopolitical event in each case was proportional in a way that  it was not a covert operation.  It was not concealed.  It was supposed to have this effect that will kind of bounce back on the target.  And of course, as we mentioned, the relationship is not always directly adversarial.  So in case of Las Vegas casinos and in case of the Sony Pictures, we had this, like,  seemingly direct threat.  But in fact, sorry, in case of Las Vegas casinos and Olympic Games, we had this seemingly direct  relationship.  But what happened was, in other cases, is that some companies were just collaterals.  So Sony Pictures, of course, have no intention of starting a war in North Korea or deploying  CIA operatives to kill the leader.  They just were doing hard.  The IT services provider attack during Winter Olympics was not involved in the assessment  of Russian doping scandal and so on.  But because they could establish this secondary relationship, they were attacked.  So how to deal with those and how to remain sane?  So I think the worst thing that can happen when these things happen is trying to establish  threat intelligence program like right now.  So if you are in situation of heightened tensions and you will want to have analyst, new analyst,  new service and so on, it will be always biased toward collection of this, of the information  around these threats.  So having the preparations and making sure that you've got intelligence requirements,  you know this relationship with the vendors and supply chains and threats, can make sure  that you will not actually be, will not be actually alert fatigue, a security operation  folks might say, and will have clear-headed analysis.  So in terms of the intelligence requirements and expectations of management, we have to  manage, we have to know if we have even capability to assess the geopolitical situation of, if  we are more on the cyber threat side, so we can only provide information of that.  We have to fight against like putting additional priorities if we are making sure that what  we do is sound methodologically and provides adequate information.  And I like models and I like methodologies that, because they provide a repeatable sequence  of steps for different situation.  And one of those known in the cyber threat intelligence is the diamond model.  So it's, I mean, it's here, it's arrows model, but you can imagine the diamond that connects  the vertices.  And it maps, it has two main accesses.  And in maps, the relationship between adversary and victim, so like sociopolitical access  and the infrastructure and capability, so technical access.  And this diamond model made by Sergio Caltagirone, I highly recommend reading about it.  It's got eight axioms and one, there is always relationship between the adversary and victim  that causes the action to happen.  But my axiom is that if you try hard enough, you will find a relationship between anything.  So it's important to, when assessing this sociopolitical access, to ask what exactly  relationship you have in mind.  Is it direct or is it direct after many, many steps?  Is there goals that will be achieved if you will be targeted by the adversary?  And in case of destructive attack, there will be some goals to be achieved.  And of course, if we step back, the assessment of those goals does require the expertise  to have a political situation.  From my perspective, it's often better for the threat intelligence team to kind of push  back on the expectation to provide those.  Like recently in my company, in my team, we had a short discussion on what is easier.  Is cyber threat intelligence easier or is this geopolitical?  And one might think that, you know, in terms of geopolitical, you can collect information,  this open source, you have this think tanks reports, this open source intelligence reporting  from various government agencies.  And in terms of technical intelligence, you need to have some malware reverse engineering  knowledge, the fire knowledge and so on.  So it might be considered more difficult, but I do not think that's the case.  And that's because the adequate collection of information that will not be biased, will  not be just public reporting, but instead will feed you like on the ground view on what's  it's going on, is at least equally challenging.  You need to know the culture, you need to know the language in most cases, you need  to know which sources are biased and so on.  So this all contributes into sometimes like easy ways of relying on associated press,  sensors, cables, which might be great, but will always be biased towards how we perceive  the situation.  So what, how to counteract that?  I would say that technical threat intelligence team might want to focus on the technical  threat intelligence.  So we do not necessarily have to have a knowledge of what is going on in terms of the geopolitical  events, but we can be prepared towards deployment of certain tactics and procedures that we  observe from our analysis on the threat landscape that are used to achieve those goals.  So as we've seen here, the wipers and denial of service attacks are very common in case  of those operations, but we've only like scratched the surface.  Of course, if you have threat intelligence team, you should pull more data in and see  exactly how did this DOS attacks were provided, if such thing would happen, how it would translate  into your monitoring and response.  So we have procedures for that.  And in this case, you can kind of mitigate the need to have very in-depth geopolitical  reporting, which might not be available to you, and instead try to rise the bar for your  organisation in terms of the specific attack.  So and finally, assessing those TTPs and so on would give you ideally a line of defence  on how to prevent those intrusions.  Okay, so I guess that's kind of what I wanted to conclude with, essentially with these points  on how to counteract the biases and so on.  So thank you for coming to ZipCon.  Thank you very much for your time.