{
  "webpage_url": "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HkJr-rlihv4",
  "title": "TROOPERS24: Complexity Kills: Examining IT Security Challenges in Healthcare Facilities",
  "description": "Talk by Julian Suleder and Peter Hecko - June 27th, 2024 at TROOPERS24 IT security conference in Heidelberg, Germany hosted by @ERNW_ITSec\n\n#TROOPERS24 #ITsecurity \nhttps://troopers.de/troopers24/talks/q8gldm/\n\nMore impressions:\n  / wearetroopers  \n  / ernw_itsec  \nhttps://infosec.exchange/@WEareTROOPERS\nhttps://infosec.exchange/@ERNW https://ernw.de",
  "channel_url": "https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPY5aUREHmbDO4PtR6AYLfQ",
  "duration": 1621,
  "channel": "TROOPERS IT Security Conference",
  "uploader": "TROOPERS IT Security Conference",
  "upload_date": "20240909"
}

This text was transcribed using whisper model: large-v2

 Thank you very much.  I think it's the toughest time.  You all got your badges.  We got just in half of an hour, but no worries, we will do this very quick.  It will be just a short overview.  I think deep dive will be maybe somewhere further.  We will see.  Okay.  My meanwhile good friend Julian, he's working for ENW.  We did a presentation together, quite fast and quick and dirty.  And yeah, we are very happy to speak to you about a very important topic.  And yeah, today I've also got Peter, he was the head of cyber defense center at Helios  Klinik in GmbH, living in Berlin.  He's podcast and long standing member of the Chaos Computer Club.  So yeah, I'm proud to be able to give a talk together with him because he's the one with  the problems.  Speaking of problems, what is just quick numbers, maybe from one or the other doesn't know Helios,  it's the European largest healthcare provider.  So we got roundabout 89 clinics, 230 roundabout medical care centers.  So 5.5 people treated a year and yeah, quite huge environment and quite huge business.  So maybe the most important numbers are we having about 62,000 clients out there with  around 10,000 servers.  And then coming to the ID environment, maybe some of have been in the ID track already.  So you can imagine that active directory roundabout 140,000 users with 130,000 groups  and roundabout 140,000 users to match, it's quite hard.  So we got roundabout 150 DC servers out there and running just, yeah, roughly 35,000 IOMT  devices.  Most of them are network connected, not all of them, but most of them.  And in this whole environment, we got a SOC, which has basically two teams, which is roundabout  18 members and we handle roundabout 40 incidents a day.  Yeah, some of them know that Germany is highly regulated, just a few regulation what we have  to do as a healthcare provider.  So I can read you now all out the German stuff there, but I think the most of them you can  read by yourself.  If you're not a native speaker, it will matter to you anyway.  So I will just go very quickly about it.  Maybe one thing is there was a state sponsored form a couple of years ago established, which  called KHZG, just the last one.  And this one sees as well to invest a minimum of 15% of the money into IT security or info  security.  So I think it's quite important that there are as well some state sponsored things going  on to help in this very difficult environment.  But there are many, many more.  So we try to fit all our regulatories on one slide.  It's quite a big one.  I think one or the other maybe, which are coming as well from big businesses, know one  of these regulatories, but these are basically the ones what we have to follow.  So and that's the part where we start talking about the challenges or problems that PETA  actually has.  And the first challenge that may not be that obvious is that they have like all publicly  available buildings.  Those buildings are operated like 24-7.  They have no closing times.  It's really hard to actually lock doors because there are many people of different skill sets  and roles that need to access those rooms and actually to care about their patients.  And even the patients are not like glued to their patient room.  They are like flexible and mobile in the hospital room.  So there are many areas where they actually could go and could access like network ports  or medical devices, OT, that's required in those areas of the hospitals and care providers.  And yeah, of course, you're not really like managing to get a point on controlling such  infrastructure because you need the flexibility to access those rooms and to have those devices,  to have those dedicated networks but accessible on thousands of network ports.  So it's kind of a challenge that's hardly to tackle actually because you could implement  like network security or port security on those access ports but there will be devices  that simply cannot cope with that.  So how to actually tackle those cases?  So there will be a port that's accessible.  And yeah.  A short story maybe about these devices are what we're having in our environment is roughly  a big hospital of ours has around about 100 beds.  That's how we're counting a big hospital.  And we got around 400 electronic doors.  So and something happened with the software to the electronic door.  So they lost all the programmation of that.  So we have to reinstall back the programmer which are wireless connected to the doors  but because the key was lost.  So personnel has to go to every door and reprogram the door and pair it again with the programmer.  So this takes roughly now five people one week just to handle 400 doors.  So that's a quite harsh environment.  And that's only the physical layer.  Yes.  The first layer with the doors.  Yeah.  So also you of course have like a medical device systems that not only consist of the  medical device itself but also of course of like server systems, communication systems  of connecting those infrastructures.  You have many infrastructures of different manufacturers that are talking to each other  in some kind.  You have like sync systems where not really the patients have access to.  You have devices that are like point of care devices that are used by patients to for example  measure glucose levels or stuff.  So you're really interconnecting various kinds of systems and infrastructures together that  need to be kind of compatible to each other.  So to increase security by having a new standard is hard because every device needs to be able  to talk that standard.  So it's really hard to actually update that.  And most of those central systems are usually requiring some kind of authentication or authorization  mechanism.  So usually you have to integrate it into your AD and that will like cost for a system that's  used in 89 clinics of different roles and wards for like having two or four thousand  different AD roles only for that one system that you're using.  And then you will have like 80 different more.  So yeah, that's a variety of different problems that you will have as an operator by simply  using systems in your large environments in the end that seem to be like controllable  but in the end you have at least to also manage those and to monitor those and to manage all  the different permissions and onboardings and different stuff.  So there's many people required to actually do that.  And also you want to have those integrated into your backup processes.  So it's really interesting to see how you could integrate various different processes  with different management and update processes like remote management solutions for manufacturers  that can directly access those systems.  Sometimes you're only like providing the operating system and the manufacturer is installing  his software stack on his own and managing that on his own.  So you're buying the service except the operating system.  Sometimes you have to do that on your own too.  So yeah, there's no real standard in how to proceed with that.  And basically every hospital has the problem of integrating those systems into their processes  in the end too and especially in the backup process because operations is key.  If you're not able to use that system anymore you are like basically closing the functionality  of delivering that kind of care in the end.  So that's not feasible in the end.  So actually the operator is not really in the position of controlling those processes  in the end.  So that needs to be performed with the manufacturer together as a joint effort.  And yeah, I think the roadmap in that was getting better in the last few years, like  in the last decade, but there's still different kinds of ways to go for the full integration  of those systems into the hospital systems.  Because in the end you will have like 650 hospitals in Germany and everyone has to solve  this problem for his own basically because they are not standardized processes for that.  So we want not only to show you slides with much text but also to have a little bit of  visualization for the problem.  So we designed a kind of hospital which is really schematic.  So we have a hospital network.  We have patients.  We have different medical devices, but we also have like backup systems or third party  systems and manufacturers managing the systems.  We have backend systems which are only used for administrative purposes, like the infrastructure  you don't see usually potentially.  But that's not all of course, because you have support processes that are not used and  obviously used in the hospital, but you require those processes in order to deliver care in  the end.  Like in-house logistics, like bringing stuff required to deliver care to the patient or  bringing the patient to the person or device delivering like therapy or diagnostics and  stuff.  You have like the medical communication server that needs to translate different aspects  of the same protocol for the different devices or systems you're using.  So yeah, there's really much to see which you have really to uncover first to at least  tackle those and document those processes and see the technical components of like controlling  those in the end.  So the hospital will not look like this, but maybe like that with the support processes.  So it's getting complex and complex and you will like have to cope with that in the end.  So yeah, coping with that, giving back to Peter.  Yeah, there are just a few more challenges we have to address as well.  Human resources.  Of course, we are a sector which is financially very tight.  For example, if you do a standard operation on your knee, you get a certain amount of  money.  So this is fixed.  So for knee operation, just to give you some figures, is about 3,000 to 5,000 euros.  So in this 3,000 to 5,000 euros cost of operation, of the real operation of your knee, you have  to include all the operation and all the things around the hospital as well.  So there goes your IT budget, your management budget, your risk budget, your things you  use during the operation like all the tools, doctors, the nurses and all the other stuff.  So this is a quite tight financial scope what you have to be in.  So that's the reason why it's as well very hard to get in this hard and very wide sector  as well as some personnel because out there, there are much more easier ways to work for  a company which is not that complex and not that huge.  As well, the problem is, as well in most of the hospitals, is a historical subordinary  of the IT department.  So it's always somewhere down there because it's not the primary value of what we are  delivering to our patients out there.  So it's quite hard to couple with these issues as well.  And of course, the pandemic increased all of that.  So yeah, that's still a huge problem.  Yeah, approaches, what we can do?  Good question.  One approach is to do, of course, ITSM.  So I think it's one of the keys.  And centralize a lot of things.  So like the SOC, centralize your core infrastructure.  So because if you have a lot of clinics like we do, from smaller ones to bigger ones, if  you have one standard, you can easily roll it out.  It's more manageable for us.  And as well, get all the things which can cause problems somehow organized.  Like the hosting or the remote sessions.  Because the one vendor wants to have a team session to do remote sessions.  The other one wants to have a permanent VPN tunnel to your environment.  And then if you ask five other vendors, they will come up with their own ideas and standards  and proceeds, what they want to establish to get remote connections and support services  within your clinic.  Yeah, as well, because it's 24-7 operation, backup is the key.  So to be able to recover quite hard after an incident, could be a failure of a hard  drive or ransomware attack or whatever, I think backup and processes are very, very  helpful.  It's one of the keys.  So the whole topic of BCM, it's quite important in this environment.  And yeah, of course, share resources between different locations.  Of course, it makes totally sense to use that in a huge environment.  And of course, make your security monitoring and support processes kind of standardized.  That the same applies to a smaller clinic, like to a huge clinic.  So the key for us is, as well, service orientation, standardization, and harmonization.  This is one of the things what we are saying out loud to the whole community in the clinic  world, because this is the only thing how you can address these issues.  Yeah, sounds quite good, but yeah, it's always a problem.  Like I mentioned, resources, it's always a big, big problem in this field.  Then of course, you have to change your infrastructure during 24-7.  So it's quite hard to change the software for a medical device, which is a patient on  and say, okay, we have now to do Windows updates, or we have to upgrade from a Windows  XP machine to something newer.  So it's quite hard.  So yeah, you have to figure out ways to do that within the 24-7 operation.  Of course, some of the devices are redundant, so that you can use someone else and exchange  them, but not all of them.  So if you have, for example, a big x-ray machine, you cannot just buy another one and put it  next to it and then do x-raying, because they are so huge, expensive, and hard to operate.  That's quite not possible.  Yeah, as well, if you have the chance to start with a clean environment, that's, I think,  the only thing what you can do.  But with a clean environment comes as well some challenges.  So of course, you can establish your core infrastructure, like servers, switches, all  the new stuff in.  So with the newest operating systems, the new network infrastructure, all the fancy  stuff.  But you're still dealing with the same old IoT or IOMT devices.  So even there, you have the problems that you even have a clean environment.  Everything is set up completely new, the newest versions, newest patches, new operating systems.  And then comes the vendor with his machine, which says, okay, oh, sorry, Windows 11, no,  it's not fitting for Windows 11.  We have to use Windows 7 for that.  You can, oh, you can't not downgrade your IT schema anymore.  That's bad, because we need some of them to run our X-ray machines or whatever.  So that's quite harsh with clean environments.  Because if you ask someone if you have all the problems and you can start from scratch,  that's always a good thing.  But in the medical sector, it's quite hard.  So it's a tough cookie.  And how you deal with that?  Of course, what you have to do, you have to very closely monitor your systems.  You have to know your weak spots.  Of course, you have to do step-by-step replacing devices.  There, of course, are some maintenance windows for certain medical devices.  There have to be as well.  So you can use these windows where devices are getting serviced to do certain upgrades  and stuff like that.  Of course, if you have newly systems introduced to your network, scan them, analyze them.  So I think that's the reason why we have to work with external vendors as well to do this  security test, because you are not an expert on every IoT or IoT to scan and perform analysis  of these devices.  And then you have, of course, develop your own concepts to run these machines in your  environment because you know your environment the best.  And then as well, work together with the vendors and manufacturer to develop ideas or concepts  to integrate them in a safer way, because we don't want to work against each other.  It's a way to how to get the vendor or the manufacturer on the hand and talk to him and  show how you can best safely implement this kind of device or service or system in your  critical infrastructure.  Yeah, I think one thing what you have to do and keep in mind as well in this hospital  environment, you have to create your own standards.  Because if you listen to all the vendors and all the suppliers out there, they will come  with 25 different standards and you cannot fit all of them in your huge environment.  You saw how many facilities we operate with, how many AD users.  If every vendor comes with their own idea, you can't manage it.  So you have to do this in a way that you can manage it.  And that's the best way to do it, is to give them your standards to the vendors.  And of course, be heart of them, because we know the big brands are coming up there and  say, no, no, no, if we can't put our own AD here, we can't sell you the product or we  can't run you the product or we are not able to because of some support reasons or whatever.  So maybe you have to get in some hard discussions with them and then find together a way how  you can operate such a device in your own network.  And define, of course, clinic-wide standards.  So the standards for example, security and stuff like that, should apply as well from  a smaller clinic, even to a big clinic.  So if you do standards, just be hard on them and push it out to your whole environment.  So measure them, of course, rate them and execute them, because this is the only way  how you can handle this.  Yes, yes, you remember our schematic hospital.  So I think after that, it more looks like this for Peter, or to like, increase complexity  more looks like this.  So you have basically everything you could have at every location and you have to sell  it somehow and covered by regulation, it's actually that part.  So all the different regulations we saw are focusing on stuff which is usually functionality  but not really infrastructure and it's hard to actually proceed on that.  So what's the next steps on that and how to actually solve something and proceed with  securing those infrastructure, because you just could not accept something that complex  without having a plan and recovering that.  So you want to have something to control and monitor, like the ransomware running through  one hospital and not spreading to the other 88.  So there needs to be something in the end.  And what's the next steps?  So of course, as Peter said, you need an IT and operational strategy.  So the goal, of course, is to use the human resources that are available most efficiently.  And that's basically by operating the core infrastructure and controlling those processes  and defining those security standards in the end to have clear responsibilities on that  and to also enforce that in all of those hospitals or medical care providers.  And yet to perform some regular assessments to see differences to the plant states and  of course to see the developments of the plants that were performed in a strategic manner.  And in the end, of course, the hospitals have to be hard on insisting on their standards  and to force having the medical device infrastructure islands being integrated into their infrastructures  following these standards in the end, because otherwise that just doesn't make sense in  creating those and doesn't solve any of those problems.  So I just want to add something else, because there are standards for medical devices in  communicating with each other, but they are usually defining the functional level of those  integration, like how to communicate patient admissions between two devices and the central  system or how to communicate medications.  But it's not about integrating those or authentication delegation through some central service or  similar. So that's a problem that usually comes while actually rolling out the system  in the end and there's no standard for that actually.  And yeah, so from our opinion, of course, there needs to be a community engagement,  because there are many hospitals having the same problems and the same kinds of problems.  You have devices and infrastructures that you have to use for 30 years. So if you decide  in using an MRI, you're usually building the building around the MRI and not putting the  MRI in the building afterwards. So you have to stick to that product.  And yeah, that's why, of course, hospitals also are interested in improving the situation  in the future, because I think legislation in regards of the devices has increased in  the past years. So I think that's a process that's already rolling in the right direction.  So we need to tackle the larger problems, which is complexity of integrating those.  And yeah, that's only possible, I think, with joint efforts and then potentially having  the regulators jumping on the right train in the right moment to not impair the movement  potentially. But yeah, so I think there is, at least in Germany, the BSI or the Federal  Office for Information Security, which already is doing things. But I think there needs to  be something from the operators and the field to also have a look at the challenges and  problems that we have talked about in our talk and to have solutions that are more standardized  and future-proof for those hospitals. Because Peter mentioned Krankenhauszukunftgesetz,  KZG. If you're spending money now on increasing your IT security, you now want to know how  to invest or to finance the processes you're starting. Because when finance is stopping,  what are you doing with the processes and the resources you need if you're tied in debt  at the moment and you're only able to perform in debt with those financings? So yeah, that's  a huge problem, of course. And I think, yeah, we hope that you enjoyed our talk and got  awareness for the problems and the problems like Peter has, because I think it's not that  large my problem. Sorry for you. But I hope you enjoyed that. And yeah, we're of course  available for questions now, because I think we are pretty brilliant in time. Yes, we are.  Perfect. So yeah, be free to ask some questions. Thank you.  Hi, great talk. Thanks a lot for that. Like, I wondered whether you guys are getting together  on a private industry basis also, because you're one part, right? You're your company,  but there's others. And if everybody's setting their own standards, you're likely not going  to kind of get anywhere. So it probably makes sense to join forces. Even if it's not, I  know, I think in Sweden or something, they have a national health BSI type-ish thing  or something or in Netherlands or somewhere. But if that doesn't exist, maybe you can form  your own NGO group of private enterprise and at least kind of, you know, have similar  standards and then it's not, you know, it's not a customization. You can kind of form  a, like everybody in Germany does it like that. You should adapt to it, dear Rendo,  because it's important, not just for us. Like, are you looking into that direction?  Yes. So I think community is the key here. So that's why we are holding this talk on  a community event. I think putting heads together, develop these kinds of standards  like open standards, you know, would fit into small private hospitals to larger, you know,  public hospitals. I think we have to get over this barrier of, you know, corporate versus  whatever. We have to set, you know, the community standards because we have different needs.  The automotive industry, I think it's far, far ahead of this. The healthcare industry,  in Germany, is way behind. But yeah, good question. I think that's one reason why we're  doing this talk, because to get a community and try to push or develop standards and push  them out.  Are there any more questions? All right. That doesn't seem to be the case. Give us a few  minutes to hook up the next speaker. And join me in giving one last round of applause  or the second.